
[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2457 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2457

                       One Hundred Eighth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the twentieth day of January, two thousand and four


                                 An Act


 
  To authorize funds for an educational center for the Castillo de San 
            Marcos National Monument, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

   TITLE I--CASTILLO DE SAN MARCOS NATIONAL MONUMENT PRESERVATION ACT

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Castillo de San Marcos National 
Monument Preservation and Education Act''.

SEC. 102. VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) Authorization.--Subject to the availability of appropriations 
and the project being prioritized in the National Park Services 5-year, 
line-item construction program, the Secretary of the Interior (referred 
to in this section as the ``Secretary'') may design and construct a 
Visitor Center for the Castillo de San Marcos National Monument 
(referred to in this section as the ``Monument'').
    (b) Preferred Alternative.--The Visitor Center authorized in 
subsection (a) shall be located and constructed in accordance with the 
Preferred Alternative identified in the Record of Decision for the 
General Management Plan for the Monument, expected to be signed in 
2005.

SEC. 103. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.

    The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the City 
of St. Augustine, Florida, the Colonial St. Augustine Preservation 
Foundation, other Federal, State, and local departments or agencies, 
academic institutions, and non-profit entities for the planning and 
design, construction, management, and operation of the Visitor Center.

SEC. 104. BOUNDARY EXPANSION.

    (a) Property Acquisition.--If the Preferred Alternative for the 
Visitor Center authorized by section 102 is located outside the 
boundary of the Monument, the Secretary is authorized to acquire the 
site for the Visitor Center, from willing sellers, by donation, 
purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or by exchange.
    (b) Administration of Newly Acquired Land.--Land added to the 
Monument pursuant to subsection (a) shall be administered by the 
Secretary in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
    (c) Boundary Modification.--The boundary of the Monument shall be 
modified to reflect the acquisition of land authorized in subsection 
(a) after completion of the acquisition.

SEC. 105. PROJECT APPROVAL.

    Prior to initiating any planning, design, or construction on the 
Visitor Center authorized by section 102, the project must be reviewed 
and approved by the National Park Service consistent with partnership 
construction guidelines established by that agency.

      TITLE II--CASTILLO DE SAN MARCOS NATIONAL MONUMENT BOUNDARY 
                              MODIFICATION

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Castillo de San Marcos National 
Monument Boundary Adjustment Act of 2004''.

SEC. 202. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
        (1) The early defense lines for Fort Marion, Florida, today 
    known as the Castillo de San Marcos National Monument, included 
    defenses extending in a line due west to the Sebastian River, a 
    distance of about one half mile.
        (2) In the 1830's, during the Seminole Wars in Florida, these 
    defensive lines were maintained, but as Florida became more settled 
    they fell into disrepair and/or became obsolete.
        (3) In 1908 the War Department deeded much of the property 
    running west to the Sebastian River to the St. Johns County Board 
    of Public Instruction. The portion of this property remaining in 
    federal ownership today is occupied by Orange Street, a City of St. 
    Augustine, Florida street.
        (4) For nearly a century, the City of St. Augustine has 
    maintained and managed Orange Street, a modern city street, and 
    associated utilities in the Orange Street corridor.
        (5) Any archeological remains that are still present on the 
    property overlaid by Orange Street are adequately protected by the 
    City's archeological ordinances, and by the City having an 
    archeologist on staff.
        (6) Although the city currently operates Orange Street under a 
    right-of-way from the National Park Service, from a management 
    perspective it is appropriate for the City of St. Augustine to own 
    Orange Street.

SEC. 203. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Conveyance of Land.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
convey, without consideration, to the City of St. Augustine, Florida, 
all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the lands 
known as Orange Street, a portion of the Castillo de San Marcos 
National Monument (Monument), consisting of approximately 3.1 acres, as 
shown on the map entitled Castillo de San Marcos National Monument 
Boundary Adjustment and Correction, numbered 343/80060, and dated April 
2003. Upon completion of the conveyance, the Secretary shall revise the 
boundary of the Monument to exclude the land conveyed.
    (b) Boundary Revision.--Effective on the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the boundary of the Monument is revised to include an area of 
approximately 0.45 acres, as shown on the map identified in subsection 
(a). The Secretary shall administer the lands included in the boundary 
as part of the national monument in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
