
[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 191 Engrossed in House (EH)]

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
108th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. CON. RES. 191

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That when the House adjourns on the legislative day of Thursday, May 
22, 2003, Friday, May 23, 2003, or Saturday, May 24, 2003, on a motion 
offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader 
or his designee, it stand adjourned until 2 p.m. on Monday, June 2, 
2003, or until Members are notified to reassemble pursuant to section 2 
of this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first; and that when 
the Senate recesses or adjourns on Friday, May 23, 2003, or Saturday, 
May 24, 2003, on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent 
resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, it stand recessed or 
adjourned until noon on Monday, June 2, 2003, or at such other time on 
that day as may be specified by its Majority Leader or his designee in 
the motion to recess or adjourn, or until Members are notified to 
reassemble pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent resolution, 
whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2. The Speaker of the House and the Majority Leader of the 
Senate, or their respective designees, acting jointly after 
consultation with the Minority Leader of the House and the Minority 
Leader of the Senate, shall notify the Members of the House and the 
Senate, respectively, to reassemble at such place and time as they may 
designate whenever, in their opinion, the public interest shall warrant 
it.

            Passed the House of Representatives May 23 (legislative 
      day, May 22), 2003.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
108th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                            H. CON. RES. 191

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

Providing for a conditional adjournment of the House of Representatives 
         and a conditional recess or adjournment of the Senate.
