
[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 231 Engrossed in House (EH)]

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
108th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. CON. RES. 231

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That when the House adjourns on the legislative day of Thursday, June 
26, 2003, Friday, June 27, 2003, or Saturday, June 28, 2003, on a 
motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority 
Leader or his designee, it stand adjourned until 2 p.m. on Monday, July 
7, 2003, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of 
this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first; and that when the 
Senate recesses or adjourns on Thursday, June 26, 2003, Friday, June 
27, 2003, or Saturday, June 28, 2003, on a motion offered pursuant to 
this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, it 
stand recessed or adjourned until noon on Monday, July 7, 2003, or at 
such other time on that day as may be specified by its Majority Leader 
or his designee in the motion to recess or adjourn, or until the time 
of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent resolution, 
whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2. The Speaker of the House and the Majority Leader of the 
Senate, or their respective designees, acting jointly after 
consultation with the Minority Leader of the House and the Minority 
Leader of the Senate, shall notify the Members of the House and the 
Senate, respectively, to reassemble at such place and time as they may 
designate whenever, in their opinion, the public interest shall warrant 
it.

            Passed the House of Representatives June 27 (legislative 
      day, June 26), 2003.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
108th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                            H. CON. RES. 231

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

Providing for a conditional adjournment of the House of Representatives 
         and a conditional recess or adjournment of the Senate.
