
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 5 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 5

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                       January 5, 2011.
    Resolved, That the Rules of the House of Representatives of the One Hundred 
Eleventh Congress, including applicable provisions of law or concurrent 
resolution that constituted rules of the House at the end of the One Hundred 
Eleventh Congress, are adopted as the Rules of the House of Representatives of 
the One Hundred Twelfth Congress, with amendments to the standing rules as 
provided in section 2, and with other orders as provided in sections 3, 4, and 
5.

SEC. 2. CHANGES TO THE STANDING RULES.

    (a) Citing Authority Under the Constitution.--
            (1) In clause 7 of rule XII, add the following new paragraph:
            ``(c)(1) A bill or joint resolution may not be introduced unless the 
        sponsor submits for printing in the Congressional Record a statement 
        citing as specifically as practicable the power or powers granted to 
        Congress in the Constitution to enact the bill or joint resolution. The 
        statement shall appear in a portion of the Record designated for that 
        purpose and be made publicly available in electronic form by the Clerk.
            ``(2) Before consideration of a Senate bill or joint resolution, the 
        chair of a committee of jurisdiction may submit the statement required 
        under subparagraph (1) as though the chair were the sponsor of the 
        Senate bill or joint resolution.''.
            (2) In clause 3(d) of rule XIII--
                    (A) strike subparagraph (1) (and redesignate the succeeding 
                subparagraphs accordingly); and
                    (B) in subparagraph (2), as redesignated, strike 
                ``subparagraph (2)'' each place it appears and insert (in each 
                instance) ``subparagraph (1)''.
    (b) Three-day Availability for Unreported Measures.--In rule XXI, add the 
following new clause:
    ``11. It shall not be in order to consider a bill or joint resolution which 
has not been reported by a committee until the third calendar day (excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays except when the House is in session on 
such a day) on which such measure has been available to Members, Delegates, and 
the Resident Commissioner.''.
    (c) Transparency for House and Committee Operations.--
            (1) Standards for electronic documents.--In clause 4(d)(1) of rule 
        X--
                    (A) in subdivision (C), strike ``and'';
                    (B) in subdivision (D), strike the period and insert ``; 
                and''; and
                    (C) add the following new subdivision:
                            ``(E) establish and maintain standards for making 
                        documents publicly available in electronic form by the 
                        House and its committees.''.
            (2) Ensuring that text is publicly available in electronic form.--In 
        rule XXIX, add the following new clause:
    ``3. If a measure or matter is publicly available in electronic form at a 
location designated by the Committee on House Administration, it shall be 
considered as having been available to Members, Delegates, and the Resident 
Commissioner for purposes of these rules.''.
            (3) Minimum notice period for committee meetings and hearings.--In 
        rule XI, amend clause 2(g)(3) to read as follows:
                    ``(3)(A) The chair of a committee shall announce the date, 
                place, and subject matter of--
                    ``(i) a committee hearing, which may not commence earlier 
                than one week after such notice; or
                    ``(ii) a committee meeting, which may not commence earlier 
                than the third day on which members have notice thereof.
            ``(B) A hearing or meeting may begin sooner than specified in 
        subdivision (A) in either of the following circumstances (in which case 
        the chair shall make the announcement specified in subdivision (A) at 
        the earliest possible time):
                    ``(i) the chair of the committee, with the concurrence of 
                the ranking minority member, determines that there is good 
                cause; or
                    ``(ii) the committee so determines by majority vote in the 
                presence of the number of members required under the rules of 
                the committee for the transaction of business.
            ``(C) An announcement made under this subparagraph shall be 
        published promptly in the Daily Digest and made publicly available in 
        electronic form.
            ``(D) This subparagraph and subparagraph (4) shall not apply to the 
        Committee on Rules.''.
            (4) Minimum period for availability of committee markup text.--In 
        clause 2(g) of rule XI, insert the following new subparagraph, and 
        redesignate the succeeding subparagraphs accordingly:
                    ``(4) At least 24 hours prior to the commencement of a 
                meeting for the markup of legislation, or at the time of an 
                announcement under subparagraph (3)(B) made within 24 hours 
                before such meeting, the chair of the committee shall cause the 
                text of such legislation to be made publicly available in 
                electronic form.''.
            (5) Availability of votes in electronic form.--In clause 
        2(e)(1)(B)(i) of rule XI--
                    (A) in the first sentence, before the period at the end 
                thereof insert ``and also made publicly available in electronic 
                form within 48 hours of such record vote''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, strike ``for public 
                inspection''.
            (6) Availability of the text of amendments in electronic form.--In 
        clause 2(e) of rule XI, add the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(6) Not later than 24 hours after the adoption of any 
                amendment to a measure or matter considered by a committee, the 
                chair of such committee shall cause the text of each such 
                amendment to be made publicly available in electronic form.''.
            (7) Availability of ``truth in testimony'' information in electronic 
        form.--In clause 2(g)(5) of rule XI, as redesignated, add the following 
        new sentence: ``Such statements, with appropriate redactions to protect 
        the privacy of the witness, shall be made publicly available in 
        electronic form not later than one day after the witness appears.''.
            (8) Availability of committee rules in electronic form.--In clause 
        2(a) of rule XI, amend subparagraph (2) to read as follows:
                    ``(2) Each committee shall make its rules publicly available 
                in electronic form and submit such rules for publication in the 
                Congressional Record not later than 30 days after the chair of 
                the committee is elected in each odd-numbered year.''.
            (9) Audio and video coverage of committee hearings and meetings.--In 
        clause 2(e) of rule XI, add the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(5) To the maximum extent practicable, each committee 
                shall--
                            ``(A) provide audio and video coverage of each 
                        hearing or meeting for the transaction of business in a 
                        manner that allows the public to easily listen to and 
                        view the proceedings; and
                            ``(B) maintain the recordings of such coverage in a 
                        manner that is easily accessible to the public.''.
            (10) Record votes in the committee on rules.--In clause 3(b) of rule 
        XIII, strike ``a report by the Committee on Rules on a rule, joint rule, 
        or the order of business or to''.
            (11) Elimination of duplicative programs.--In clause 2(d)(1) of rule 
        X--
                    (A) in subdivision (D), strike ``and'';
                    (B) in subdivision (E), strike the period and insert ``; 
                and''; and
                    (C) add the following new subdivision:
                            ``(F) include proposals to cut or eliminate 
                        programs, including mandatory spending programs, that 
                        are inefficient, duplicative, outdated, or more 
                        appropriately administered by State or local 
                        governments.''.
    (d) Initiatives to Reduce Spending and Improve Accountability.--
            (1) Cut-as-you-go.--In rule XXI, amend clause 10 to read as follows:
    ``10.(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c), it shall not be in 
order to consider a bill or joint resolution, or an amendment thereto or a 
conference report thereon, if the provisions of such measure have the net effect 
of increasing mandatory spending for the period of either--
            ``(A) the current year, the budget year, and the four fiscal years 
        following that budget year; or
            ``(B) the current year, the budget year, and the nine fiscal years 
        following that budget year.
    ``(2) For the purpose of this clause, the terms `budget year' and `current 
year' have the meanings specified in section 250 of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and the term `mandatory spending' has the 
meaning of `direct spending' specified in such section 250 except that such term 
shall also include provisions in appropriation Acts that make outyear 
modifications to substantive law as described in section 3(4)(C) of the 
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
    ``(b) If a bill or joint resolution, or an amendment thereto, is considered 
pursuant to a special order of the House directing the Clerk to add as new 
matter at the end of such bill or joint resolution the entire text of a separate 
measure or measures as passed by the House, the new matter proposed to be added 
shall be included in the evaluation under paragraph (a) of the bill, joint 
resolution, or amendment.
    ``(c)(1) Except as provided in subparagraph (2), the evaluation under 
paragraph (a) shall exclude a provision expressly designated as an emergency for 
the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, in the case of a point of order under 
this clause against consideration of--
            ``(A) a bill or joint resolution;
            ``(B) an amendment made in order as original text by a special order 
        of business;
            ``(C) a conference report; or
            ``(D) an amendment between the Houses.
    ``(2) In the case of an amendment (other than one specified in subparagraph 
(1)) to a bill or joint resolution, the evaluation under paragraph (a) shall 
give no cognizance to any designation of emergency.''.
            (2) Requiring a vote on raising the debt limit.--Rule XXVIII is 
        amended to read as follows:

                                  ``RULE XXVIII

                                ``(Reserved.)''.

            (3) Clarifying the role of the chair of the committee on the 
        budget.--In rule XXIX, add the following new clause:
    ``4. Authoritative guidance from the Committee on the Budget concerning the 
impact of a legislative proposition on the levels of new budget authority, 
outlays, direct spending, new entitlement authority and revenues may be provided 
by the chair of the committee.''.
            (4) Highway funding.--In rule XXI--
                    (A) amend clause 3 to read as follows:
    ``3. It shall not be in order to consider a general appropriation bill or 
joint resolution, or conference report thereon, that--
    ``(a) provides spending authority derived from receipts deposited in the 
Highway Trust Fund (excluding any transfers from the General Fund of the 
Treasury); or
    ``(b) reduces or otherwise limits the accruing balances of the Highway Trust 
Fund,
for any purpose other than for those activities authorized for the highway or 
mass transit categories.''; and
                    (B) in clause 3, strike the caption.
            (5) Limitation on increases in direct spending in reconciliation 
        initiatives.--In rule XXI, amend clause 7 to read as follows:
    ``7. It shall not be in order to consider a concurrent resolution on the 
budget, or an amendment thereto, or a conference report thereon that contains 
reconciliation directives under section 310 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974 that specify changes in law such that the reconciliation legislation 
reported pursuant to such directives would cause an increase in net direct 
spending (as such term is defined in clause 10) for the period covered by such 
concurrent resolution.''.
    (e) Other Changes to House Operations.--
            (1) Two-minute voting.--In clause 6 of rule XVIII--
                    (A) in paragraph (f), strike ``five minutes'' and insert 
                ``not less than two minutes''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (g), strike ``five minutes'' and insert 
                ``not less than two minutes''.
            (2) Use of electronic devices on the floor.--In clause 5 of rule 
        XVII, amend the penultimate sentence to read as follows: ``A person on 
        the floor of the House may not smoke or use a mobile electronic device 
        that impairs decorum.''.
            (3) Updating rules governing the media.--
                    (A) In clause 2 of rule VI, strike the penultimate sentence, 
                and amend the last sentence to read as follows: ``The Speaker 
                may admit to the floor, under such regulations as the Speaker 
                may prescribe, not more than one representative of each press 
                association.''.
                    (B) In clause 3 of rule VI, strike the last sentence and 
                insert ``The Speaker may admit to the floor, under such 
                regulations as the Speaker may prescribe, not more than one 
                representative of each media outlet.''.
                    (C) In clause 4(f)(7) of rule XI, strike the first sentence.
            (4) Voting by delegates and the resident commissioner in the 
        committee of the whole.--
                    (A) In clause 3(a) of rule III, strike the first sentence.
                    (B) In rule XVIII--
                            (i) in clause 1, strike ``, Delegate, or the 
                        Resident Commissioner''; and
                            (ii) in clause 6, strike paragraph (h).
            (5) Motions to strike in the committee of the whole.--In rule XVIII, 
        strike clause 11 (and redesignate the succeeding clause accordingly).
            (6) Clarifying jurisdiction over certain cemeteries.--In clause 1(c) 
        of rule X, add the following subparagraph:
                    ``(16) Cemeteries administered by the Department of 
                Defense.''.
            (7) Designating committee on education and the workforce.--In rule 
        X--
                    (A) in clause 1(e), strike ``Committee on Education and 
                Labor'' and insert ``Committee on Education and the Workforce''; 
                and
                    (B) in clause 3(d), strike ``Committee on Education and 
                Labor'' and insert ``Committee on Education and the Workforce''.
            (8) Designating committee on ethics.--
                    (A) In the standing rules, strike ``Committee on Standards 
                of Official Conduct'' each place it appears and insert (in each 
                instance) ``Committee on Ethics''.
                    (B) In clause 1 of rule X, insert paragraph (q) after 
                paragraph (f) (and redesignate the succeeding paragraphs 
                accordingly).
                    (C) In the standing rules, strike ``clause 1(j)(1) of rule 
                X'' each place it appears and insert (in each instance) ``clause 
                1(k)(1) of rule X''.
            (9) Designating the committee on science, space, and technology.--In 
        rule X--
                    (A) in clause 1(p), as redesignated, strike ``Committee on 
                Science and Technology'' and insert ``Committee on Science, 
                Space, and Technology''; and
                    (B) in clause 3(k), strike ``Committee on Science and 
                Technology'' and insert ``Committee on Science, Space, and 
                Technology''.
            (10) Eliminating the select intelligence oversight panel.--In clause 
        4(a) of rule X, strike subparagraph (5).
            (11) Adjusting the size of the permanent select committee on 
        intelligence.--In clause 11(a)(1) of rule X, strike ``22'' and insert 
        ``20'' and strike ``13'' and insert ``12''.
            (12) Restoring the term limit rule for committee chairs.--In clause 
        5 of rule X, redesignate paragraph (c) as subparagraph (c)(1) and add 
        the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(2) Except in the case of the Committee on Rules, a member 
                of a standing committee may not serve as chair of the same 
                standing committee, or of the same subcommittee of a standing 
                committee, during more than three consecutive Congresses 
                (disregarding for this purpose any service for less than a full 
                session in a Congress).''.
            (13) Committee activity reports.--In clause 1 of rule XI, amend 
        paragraph (d) to read as follows:
            ``(d)(1) Not later than the 30th day after June 1 and December 1, a 
        committee shall submit to the House a semiannual report on the 
        activities of that committee.
            ``(2) Such report shall include--
                    ``(A) separate sections summarizing the legislative and 
                oversight activities of that committee under this rule and rule 
                X during the applicable period;
                    ``(B) in the case of the first such report, a summary of the 
                oversight plans submitted by the committee under clause 2(d) of 
                rule X;
                    ``(C) a summary of the actions taken and recommendations 
                made with respect to the oversight plans specified in 
                subdivision (B);
                    ``(D) a summary of any additional oversight activities 
                undertaken by that committee and any recommendations made or 
                actions taken thereon; and
                    ``(E) a delineation of any hearings held pursuant to clauses 
                2(n), (o), or (p) of this rule.
            ``(3) After an adjournment sine die of a regular session of a 
        Congress, or after December 15, whichever occurs first, the chair of a 
        committee may file the second or fourth semiannual report described in 
        subparagraph (1) with the Clerk at any time and without approval of the 
        committee, provided that--
                    ``(A) a copy of the report has been available to each member 
                of the committee for at least seven calendar days; and
                    ``(B) the report includes any supplemental, minority, or 
                additional views submitted by a member of the committee.''.
            (14) Modifying staff deposition authority.--In clause 4(c)(3)(B) of 
        rule X--
                    (A) in item (i), strike ``and'';
                    (B) in item (ii), strike the period and insert ``; and''; 
                and
                    (C) add at the end the following new item:
                                    ``(iii) shall, unless waived by the 
                                deponent, require the attendance of a member of 
                                the committee.''.
    (f) Technical and Clarifying Changes.--
            (1) In clause 3(a) of rule III, strike ``of the House''.
            (2) In rule IV--
                    (A) in clause 1, strike ``The Speaker may not entertain a 
                motion for the suspension of this clause.''; and
                    (B) in clause 2(b), after ``clause'' insert ``or clauses 1, 
                3, 4, or 5''.
            (3) In clause 3(o)(2) of rule XI, after ``investigation'' insert 
        ``when''.
            (4) In clause 7 of rule XII, strike ``primary sponsor'' each place 
        it appears and insert (in each instance) ``sponsor''.
            (5) In clause 6(c) of rule XIII, strike ``Senate bill or 
        resolution'' and insert ``Senate bill or joint resolution''.
            (6) In clause 2(c) of rule XV--
                    (A) strike ``Clerk shall make signatures'' and insert 
                ``Clerk shall make the signatories''; and
                    (B) strike ``published with the signatures'' and insert 
                ``published with the signatories''.
            (7) In clause 6(c) of rule XXIII, strike ``a campaign accounts'' and 
        insert ``a campaign account''.
            (8) In clause 13 of rule XXIII, strike ``Clerk shall make 
        signatures'' and insert ``Clerk shall make the signatories''.

SEC. 3. SEPARATE ORDERS.

    (a) Budget Matters.--
            (1) During the One Hundred Twelfth Congress, references in section 
        306 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to a resolution shall be 
        construed in the House of Representatives as references to a joint 
        resolution.
            (2) During the One Hundred Twelfth Congress, in the case of a 
        reported bill or joint resolution considered pursuant to a special order 
        of business, a point of order under section 303 of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974 shall be determined on the basis of the text made in 
        order as an original bill or joint resolution for the purpose of 
        amendment or to the text on which the previous question is ordered 
        directly to passage, as the case may be.
            (3) During the One Hundred Twelfth Congress, a provision in a bill 
        or joint resolution, or in an amendment thereto or a conference report 
        thereon, that establishes prospectively for a Federal office or position 
        a specified or minimum level of compensation to be funded by annual 
        discretionary appropriations shall not be considered as providing new 
        entitlement authority within the meaning of the Congressional Budget Act 
        of 1974.
            (4)(A) During the One Hundred Twelfth Congress, except as provided 
        in subparagraph (C), a motion that the Committee of the Whole rise and 
        report a bill to the House shall not be in order if the bill, as 
        amended, exceeds an applicable allocation of new budget authority under 
        section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as estimated by 
        the Committee on the Budget.
            (B) If a point of order under subparagraph (A) is sustained, the 
        Chair shall put the question: ``Shall the Committee of the Whole rise 
        and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
        adopted notwithstanding that the bill exceeds its allocation of new 
        budget authority under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 
        1974?''. Such question shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided 
        and controlled by a proponent of the question and an opponent but shall 
        be decided without intervening motion.
            (C) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply--
                    (i) to a motion offered under clause 2(d) of rule XXI; or
                    (ii) after disposition of a question under subparagraph (B) 
                on a given bill.
            (D) If a question under subparagraph (B) is decided in the negative, 
        no further amendment shall be in order except--
                    (i) one proper amendment, which shall be debatable for 10 
                minutes equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an 
                opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be 
                subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or 
                in the Committee of the Whole; and
                    (ii) pro forma amendments, if offered by the chair or 
                ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or 
                their designees, for the purpose of debate.
    (b) Budget Enforcement.--
            (1) The chair of the Committee on the Budget (when elected) shall 
        include in the Congressional Record budget aggregates and allocations 
        contemplated by section 301 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and 
        allocations contemplated by section 302(a) of that Act for fiscal year 
        2011, and the period of fiscal years 2011 through 2015.
            (2) The aggregates and allocations specified in subsection (1) shall 
        be considered as contained in a concurrent resolution on the budget for 
        fiscal year 2011 and the submission thereof into the Congressional 
        Record shall be considered as the completion of congressional action on 
        a concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2011.
    (c) Emergencies and Contingencies.--
            (1) Emergencies.--Until adoption of a concurrent resolution on the 
        budget for fiscal year 2012, if a bill or joint resolution is reported, 
        or amendment thereto is offered or a conference report thereon is filed, 
        that provides new budget authority and outlays or reduces revenue, and 
        such provision is designated as an emergency pursuant to this section, 
        the chair of the Committee on the Budget shall not count the budgetary 
        effects of such provision for purposes of titles III and IV of the 
        Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and the Rules of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (2) Exemption of contingency operations related to the global war on 
        terrorism.--For any bill or joint resolution, or amendment thereto or 
        conference report thereon, that makes appropriations for fiscal year 
        2011 for contingency operations directly related to the global war on 
        terrorism, then the new budget authority or outlays resulting therefrom 
        shall not count for purposes of titles III or IV of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974.
    (d) Deficit-neutral Revenue Reserve.--Until the adoption of a concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2012, if any bill reported by the 
Committee on Ways and Means, or amendment thereto or conference report thereon, 
decreases revenue, the chair of the Committee on the Budget may adjust the 
allocations, the revenue levels, and other aggregates referred to in subsection 
(b)(1), provided that such measure would not increase the deficit over the 
period of fiscal years 2011 through 2021.
    (e) Limitation on Advance Appropriations.--
            (1) Except as provided by paragraph (2), any general appropriation 
        bill or joint resolution continuing appropriations, or amendment thereto 
        or conference report thereon, may not provide advance appropriations.
            (2) Advance appropriations may be provided--
                    (A) for fiscal year 2012 for programs, projects, activities, 
                or accounts identified in the Congressional Record under the 
                heading ``Accounts Identified for Advance Appropriations'' in an 
                aggregate amount not to exceed $28,852,000,000 in new budget 
                authority, and for 2013, an aggregate amount not to exceed 
                $28,852,000,000 for accounts separately identified under the 
                same heading; and
                    (B) for the Department of Veterans Affairs for the Medical 
                Services, Medical Support and Compliance, and Medical Facilities 
                accounts of the Veterans Health Administration.
            (3) In this subsection, the term ``advance appropriation'' means any 
        new discretionary budget authority provided in a general appropriation 
        bill or any new discretionary budget authority provided in a joint 
        resolution making continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2011 that 
        first becomes available for a fiscal year after fiscal 2011.
    (f) Compliance With Section 13301 of the Budget Enforcement of Act of 
1990.--
            (1) In general.--In the House, notwithstanding section 302(a)(1) of 
        the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, section 13301 of the Budget 
        Enforcement Act of 1990, and section 4001 of the Omnibus Budget 
        Reconciliation Act of 1989, the joint explanatory statement accompanying 
        the conference report on any concurrent resolution on the budget shall 
        include in its allocation under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974 to the Committee on Appropriations amounts for the 
        discretionary administrative expenses of the Social Security 
        Administration and of the Postal Service.
            (2) Special rule.--For purposes of applying section 302(f) of the 
        Congressional Budget Act of 1974, estimates of the level of total new 
        budget authority and total outlays provided by a measure shall include 
        any off-budget discretionary amounts.
    (g) Limitation on Long-term Spending.--
            (1) It shall not be in order to consider a bill or joint resolution 
        reported by a committee (other than the Committee on Appropriations), or 
        an amendment thereto or a conference report thereon, if the provisions 
        of such measure have the net effect of increasing mandatory spending in 
        excess of $5,000,000,000 for any period described in paragraph (2).
            (2)(A) The applicable periods for purposes of this clause are any of 
        the first four consecutive 10-fiscal-year periods beginning with the 
        first fiscal year following the last fiscal year for which the 
        applicable concurrent resolution on the budget sets forth appropriate 
        budgetary levels.
            (B) In this paragraph, the applicable concurrent resolution on the 
        budget is the one most recently adopted before the date on which a 
        committee first reported the bill or joint resolution described in 
        paragraph (a).
    (h) Exemptions.--
            (1) Until the adoption of the concurrent resolution on the budget 
        for fiscal year 2012, the chair of the Committee on the Budget may 
        adjust an estimate under clause 4 of rule XXIX to--
                    (A) exempt the budgetary effects of measures extending the 
                Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001;
                    (B) exempt the budgetary effects of measures extending the 
                Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003;
                    (C) exempt the budgetary effects of measures--
                            (i) repealing the Patient Protection and Affordable 
                        Care Act and title I and subtitle B of title II of the 
                        Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation 
                        Act of 2010;
                            (ii) reforming the Patient Protection and Affordable 
                        Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability 
                        Reconciliation Act of 2010; or
                            (iii) reforming the Patient Protection and 
                        Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education 
                        Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 and the payment 
                        rates and related parameters in accordance with section 
                        1848 of the Social Security Act;
                    (D) exempt the budgetary effects of measures that adjust the 
                Alternative Minimum Tax exemption amounts to prevent a larger 
                number of taxpayers as compared with tax year 2008 from being 
                subject to the Alternative Minimum Tax or of allowing the use of 
                nonrefundable personal credits against the Alternative Minimum 
                Tax, or both as applicable;
                    (E) exempt the budgetary effects of extending the estate, 
                gift, and generation-skipping transfer tax provisions of title 
                III of the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, 
                and Job Creation Act of 2010;
                    (F) exempt the budgetary effects of measures providing a 20 
                percent deduction in income to small businesses; and
                    (G) exempt the budgetary effects of measures implementing 
                trade agreements.
            (2) A measure may only qualify for an exemption under subsection 
        (h)(1)(C)(ii) or (iii) if it does not--
                    (A) increase the deficit over the period of fiscal years 
                2011 through 2021; or
                    (B) increase revenues over the period of fiscal years 2011 
                through 2021, other than by--
                            (i) repealing or modifying the individual mandate 
                        (codified as section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code 
                        of 1986); or
                            (ii) modifying the subsidies to purchase health 
                        insurance (codified as section 36B of the Internal 
                        Revenue Code of 1986).
    (i) Determinations for PAYGO Acts.--In determining the budgetary effects of 
any legislation for the purposes of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go 
Act of 2010 (including the required designation in PAYGO Acts), the chair of the 
Committee on the Budget may make adjustments to take into account the exemptions 
and adjustments set forth in subsection (h).
    (j) Spending Reduction Amendments in Appropriations Bills.--
            (1) During the reading of a general appropriation bill for amendment 
        in the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, it shall 
        be in order to consider en bloc amendments proposing only to transfer 
        appropriations from an object or objects in the bill to a spending 
        reduction account. When considered en bloc under this clause, such 
        amendments may amend portions of the bill not yet read for amendment 
        (following disposition of any points of order against such portions) and 
        are not subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or 
        in the Committee of the Whole.
            (2) Except as provided in paragraph (1), it shall not be in order to 
        consider an amendment to a spending reduction account in the House or in 
        the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
            (3) It shall not be in order to consider an amendment to a general 
        appropriation bill proposing a net increase in budget authority in the 
        bill (unless considered en bloc with another amendment or amendments 
        proposing an equal or greater decrease in such budget authority pursuant 
        to clause 2(f) of rule XXI).
            (4) A point of order under clause 2(b) of rule XXI shall not apply 
        to a spending reduction account.
            (5) A general appropriation bill may not be considered in the 
        Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union unless it 
        includes a spending reduction account as the last section of the bill. 
        An order to report a general appropriation bill to the House shall 
        constitute authority for the chair of the Committee on Appropriations to 
        add such a section to the bill or modify the figure contained therein.
            (6) For purposes of this subsection, the term ``spending reduction 
        account'' means an account in a general appropriation bill that bears 
        that caption and contains only a recitation of the amount by which an 
        applicable allocation of new budget authority under section 302(b) of 
        the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 exceeds the amount of new budget 
        authority proposed by the bill.
    (k) Certain Subcommittees.--Notwithstanding clause 5(d) of rule X, during 
the One Hundred Twelfth Congress--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services may have not more than seven 
        subcommittees;
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs may have not more than seven 
        subcommittees; and
            (3) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure may have not 
        more than six subcommittees.
    (l) Exercise Facilities for Former Members.--During the One Hundred Twelfth 
Congress--
            (1) The House of Representatives may not provide access to any 
        exercise facility which is made available exclusively to Members and 
        former Members, officers and former officers of the House of 
        Representatives, and their spouses to any former Member, former officer, 
        or spouse who is a lobbyist registered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act 
        of 1995 or any successor statute or agent of a foreign principal as 
        defined in clause 5 of rule XXV. For purposes of this section, the term 
        ``Member'' includes a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress.
            (2) The Committee on House Administration shall promulgate 
        regulations to carry out this subsection.
    (m) Numbering of Bills.--In the One Hundred Twelfth Congress, the first 10 
numbers for bills (H.R. 1 through H.R. 10) shall be reserved for assignment by 
the Speaker and the second 10 numbers for bills (H.R. 11 through H.R. 20) shall 
be reserved for assignment by the Minority Leader.
    (n) Transition Rule.--Pending the designation of a location by the Committee 
on House Administration pursuant to clause 3 of rule XXIX, documents may be made 
publicly available in electronic form at the following locations:
            (1) with respect to consideration by the House, the majority website 
        of the Committee on Rules; and
            (2) with respect to consideration by a committee, the majority 
        website of the committee.

SEC. 4. COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS, AND HOUSE OFFICES.

    (a) House Democracy Partnership.--House Resolution 24, One Hundred Tenth 
Congress, shall apply in the One Hundred Twelfth Congress in the same manner as 
such resolution applied in the One Hundred Tenth Congress except that the 
commission concerned shall be known as the House Democracy Partnership.
    (b) Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.--Sections 1 through 7 of House 
Resolution 1451, One Hundred Tenth Congress, shall apply in the One Hundred 
Twelfth Congress in the same manner as such provisions applied in the One 
Hundred Tenth Congress, except that--
            (1) the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission may, in addition to 
        collaborating closely with other professional staff members of the 
        Committee on Foreign Affairs, collaborate closely with professional 
        staff members of other relevant committees; and
            (2) the resources of the Committee on Foreign Affairs which the 
        Commission may use shall include all resources which the Committee is 
        authorized to obtain from other offices of the House of Representatives.
    (c) Office of Congressional Ethics.--Section 1 of House Resolution 895, One 
Hundred Tenth Congress, shall apply in the One Hundred Twelfth Congress in the 
same manner as such provision applied in the One Hundred Tenth Congress, except 
that the Office of Congressional Ethics shall be treated as a standing committee 
of the House for purposes of section 202(I) of the Legislative Reorganization 
Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i)) and references to the Committee on Standards of 
Official Conduct shall be construed as references to the Committee on Ethics.
    (d) Empaneling Investigative Subcommittee of the Committee on Ethics.--The 
text of House Resolution 451, One Hundred Tenth Congress, shall apply in the One 
Hundred Twelfth Congress in the same manner as such provision applied in the One 
Hundred Tenth Congress, except that references to the Committee on Standards of 
Official Conduct shall be construed as references to the Committee on Ethics.

SEC. 5. ADDITIONAL ORDERS OF BUSINESS.

    (a) Reading of the Constitution.--The Speaker may recognize a Member for the 
reading of the Constitution on the legislative day of January 6, 2011.
    (b) Providing for Consideration of Certain Motions to Suspend the Rules.--It 
shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of January 6, 2011, for the 
Speaker to entertain motions to suspend the rules related to reducing the costs 
of operation of the House of Representatives, except that notwithstanding clause 
1(c) of rule XV such motion shall be debatable for two hours, equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
