
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 288 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 288

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          June 2, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 2055) making appropriations for military construction, the Department 
of Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2012, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. Points of order against 
provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are 
waived. During consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair of the 
Committee of the Whole may accord priority in recognition on the basis of 
whether the Member offering an amendment has caused it to be printed in the 
portion of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of 
rule XVIII. Amendments so printed shall be considered as read. When the 
committee rises and reports the bill back to the House with a recommendation 
that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) proceedings under section 2 of this resolution; and (2) one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  The proceedings referred to in the first section of this resolution 
are as follows: (a) after disposition of any amendments reported from the 
Committee of the Whole, the Chair shall put the question on retaining the title 
beginning on page 25, line 14 (Department of Veterans Affairs); and (b) after 
disposition of the question under subsection (a), the Chair shall put the 
question on engrossment and third reading of the text comprising those portions 
of the bill (as perfected): (1) retained by the House pursuant to subsection 
(a); and (2) not subject to proceedings under subsection (a).
    Sec. 3.  In the engrossment of H.R. 2055, the Clerk shall conform title and 
section numbers and make related corrections to cross-references in the event a 
portion of the bill is not retained pursuant to section 2 of this resolution.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
