
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 667 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 667

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 31, 2012.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5743) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2013 for 
intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States 
Government, the Community Management Account, and the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other purposes. The first 
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the 
bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. 
After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-
minute rule. It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the 
purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence now 
printed in the bill. The committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall 
be considered as read. All points of order against the committee amendment in 
the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to the committee amendment 
in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall 
rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment 
adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the committee amendment 
in the nature of a substitute. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of any 
bill specified in section 3 of this resolution. The first reading of each such 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of each 
such bill are waived. General debate on each such bill shall be confined to that 
bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. After general 
debate each such bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. Points of order against provisions in each such bill for failure to comply 
with clause 2 of rule XXI are waived. During consideration of each such bill for 
amendment, the chair of the Committee of the Whole may accord priority in 
recognition on the basis of whether the Member offering an amendment has caused 
it to be printed in the portion of the Congressional Record designated for that 
purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so printed shall be considered as 
read. When the committee rises and reports any such bill back to the House with 
a recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on that bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 3.  The bills referred to in section 2 of this resolution are as 
follows:
     (a) The bill (H.R. 5854) making appropriations for military construction, 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2013, and for other purposes.
    (b) The bill (H.R. 5855) making appropriations for the Department of 
Homeland Security for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2013, and for other 
purposes.
    (c) The bill (H.R. 5325) making appropriations for energy and water 
development and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2013, 
and for other purposes.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
