
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Res. 81 Agreed to Senate (ATS)]

112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. RES. 81

 Authorizing expenditures by committees of the Senate for the periods 
March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, and October 1, 2011, through 
  September 30, 2012, and October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 1, 2011

 Mr. Schumer, from the Committee on Rules and Administration, reported 
  the following original resolution; which was placed on the calendar

                             March 2, 2011

                        Considered and agreed to

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Authorizing expenditures by committees of the Senate for the periods 
March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, and October 1, 2011, through 
  September 30, 2012, and October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013.

    Resolved,

SECTION 1. AGGREGATE AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) In General.--For purposes of carrying out the powers, duties, 
and functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, and under the 
appropriate authorizing resolutions of the Senate there is authorized 
for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, in the 
aggregate of $70,790,674, for the period October 1, 2011, through 
September 30, 2012, in the aggregate of $121,355,435, and for the 
period October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, in the aggregate of 
$50,564,763, in accordance with the provisions of this resolution, for 
standing committees of the Senate, the Special Committee on Aging, the 
Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Indian Affairs.
    (b) Agency Contributions.--There are authorized such sums as may be 
necessary for agency contributions related to the compensation of 
employees of the committees for the period March 1, 2011, through 
September 30, 2011, for the period October 1, 2011, through September 
30, 2012, and for the period October 1, 2012, through February 28, 
2013, to be paid from the appropriations account for ``Expenses of 
Inquiries and Investigations'' of the Senate.

SEC. 2. COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND FORESTRY.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is 
authorized from March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its 
discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $2,800,079, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $200,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $40,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $4,800,136, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $200,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $40,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $2,000,057, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $200,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $40,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 3. COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Armed Services is authorized from March 1, 
2011, through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $4,749,869, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $75,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $30,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $8,142,634, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $80,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $30,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $3,392,765, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $50,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $30,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 4. COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is 
authorized from March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its 
discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $4,304,188, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $11,667, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $700, may be expended for the training of 
        the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $7,378,606, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $1,200, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $3,074,419, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $8,333, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $500, may be expended for the training of 
        the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 5. COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on the Budget is authorized from March 1, 
2011, through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $4,489,241, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $35,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $21,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $7,695,840, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $60,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $36,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $3,206,599, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $25,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $15,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 6. COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is 
authorized from March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its 
discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $4,636,433, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $50,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $50,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $7,948,171, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $50,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $50,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $3,311,738, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $50,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $50,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 7. COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized 
from March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $3,924,299.
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $6,727,369.
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $2,803,070.

SEC. 8. COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized 
from March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $3,612,391, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $4,667, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $1,167, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $6,192,669, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $8,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $2,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $2,580,278, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $3,333, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $833, may be expended for the training of 
        the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 9. COMMITTEE ON FINANCE.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Finance is authorized from March 1, 2011, 
through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $5,333,808, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $17,500, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $5,833, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $9,143,671, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $30,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $10,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $3,809,862, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $12,500, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $4,166, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 10. COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized from March 
1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $4,393,404, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $100,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $7,531,549, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $100,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $3,138,145, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $100,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 11. COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, AND PENSIONS.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is 
authorized from March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its 
discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $6,115,313, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $75,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $25,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $10,483,393, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $75,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $25,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $4,368,081, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $75,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $25,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 12. COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules and S. Res. 445, agreed 
to October 9, 2004 (108th Congress), including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized from March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its 
discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $6,902,759, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $75,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $11,833,302, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $75,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $4,930,543, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $75,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (e) Investigations.--
            (1) In general.--The committee, or any duly authorized 
        subcommittee of the committee, is authorized to study or 
        investigate--
                    (A) the efficiency and economy of operations of all 
                branches of the Government including the possible 
                existence of fraud, misfeasance, malfeasance, 
                collusion, mismanagement, incompetence, corruption, or 
                unethical practices, waste, extravagance, conflicts of 
                interest, and the improper expenditure of Government 
                funds in transactions, contracts, and activities of the 
                Government or of Government officials and employees and 
                any and all such improper practices between Government 
                personnel and corporations, individuals, companies, or 
                persons affiliated therewith, doing business with the 
                Government; and the compliance or noncompliance of such 
                corporations, companies, or individuals or other 
                entities with the rules, regulations, and laws 
                governing the various governmental agencies and its 
                relationships with the public;
                    (B) the extent to which criminal or other improper 
                practices or activities are, or have been, engaged in 
                the field of labor-management relations or in groups or 
                organizations of employees or employers, to the 
                detriment of interests of the public, employers, or 
                employees, and to determine whether any changes are 
                required in the laws of the United States in order to 
                protect such interests against the occurrence of such 
                practices or activities;
                    (C) organized criminal activity which may operate 
                in or otherwise utilize the facilities of interstate or 
                international commerce in furtherance of any 
                transactions and the manner and extent to which, and 
                the identity of the persons, firms, or corporations, or 
                other entities by whom such utilization is being made, 
                and further, to study and investigate the manner in 
                which and the extent to which persons engaged in 
                organized criminal activity have infiltrated lawful 
                business enterprise, and to study the adequacy of 
                Federal laws to prevent the operations of organized 
                crime in interstate or international commerce; and to 
                determine whether any changes are required in the laws 
                of the United States in order to protect the public 
                against such practices or activities;
                    (D) all other aspects of crime and lawlessness 
                within the United States which have an impact upon or 
                affect the national health, welfare, and safety; 
                including but not limited to investment fraud schemes, 
                commodity and security fraud, computer fraud, and the 
                use of offshore banking and corporate facilities to 
                carry out criminal objectives;
                    (E) the efficiency and economy of operations of all 
                branches and functions of the Government with 
                particular reference to--
                            (i) the effectiveness of present national 
                        security methods, staffing, and processes as 
                        tested against the requirements imposed by the 
                        rapidly mounting complexity of national 
                        security problems;
                            (ii) the capacity of present national 
                        security staffing, methods, and processes to 
                        make full use of the Nation's resources of 
                        knowledge and talents;
                            (iii) the adequacy of present 
                        intergovernmental relations between the United 
                        States and international organizations 
                        principally concerned with national security of 
                        which the United States is a member; and
                            (iv) legislative and other proposals to 
                        improve these methods, processes, and 
                        relationships;
                    (F) the efficiency, economy, and effectiveness of 
                all agencies and departments of the Government involved 
                in the control and management of energy shortages 
                including, but not limited to, their performance with 
                respect to--
                            (i) the collection and dissemination of 
                        accurate statistics on fuel demand and supply;
                            (ii) the implementation of effective energy 
                        conservation measures;
                            (iii) the pricing of energy in all forms;
                            (iv) coordination of energy programs with 
                        State and local government;
                            (v) control of exports of scarce fuels;
                            (vi) the management of tax, import, 
                        pricing, and other policies affecting energy 
                        supplies;
                            (vii) maintenance of the independent sector 
                        of the petroleum industry as a strong 
                        competitive force;
                            (viii) the allocation of fuels in short 
                        supply by public and private entities;
                            (ix) the management of energy supplies 
                        owned or controlled by the Government;
                            (x) relations with other oil producing and 
                        consuming countries;
                            (xi) the monitoring of compliance by 
                        governments, corporations, or individuals with 
                        the laws and regulations governing the 
                        allocation, conservation, or pricing of energy 
                        supplies; and
                            (xii) research into the discovery and 
                        development of alternative energy supplies; and
                    (G) the efficiency and economy of all branches and 
                functions of Government with particular references to 
                the operations and management of Federal regulatory 
                policies and programs.
            (2) Extent of inquiries.--In carrying out the duties 
        provided in paragraph (1), the inquiries of this committee or 
        any subcommittee of the committee shall not be construed to be 
        limited to the records, functions, and operations of any 
        particular branch of the Government and may extend to the 
        records and activities of any persons, corporation, or other 
        entity.
            (3) Special committee authority.--For the purposes of this 
        subsection, the committee, or any duly authorized subcommittee 
        of the committee, or its chairman, or any other member of the 
        committee or subcommittee designated by the chairman, from 
        March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, is authorized, in 
        its, his, hers, or their discretion--
                    (A) to require by subpoena or otherwise the 
                attendance of witnesses and production of 
                correspondence, books, papers, and documents;
                    (B) to hold hearings;
                    (C) to sit and act at any time or place during the 
                sessions, recess, and adjournment periods of the 
                Senate;
                    (D) to administer oaths; and
                    (E) to take testimony, either orally or by sworn 
                statement, or, in the case of staff members of the 
                Committee and the Permanent Subcommittee on 
                Investigations, by deposition in accordance with the 
                Committee Rules of Procedure.
            (4) Authority of other committees.--Nothing contained in 
        this subsection shall affect or impair the exercise of any 
        other standing committee of the Senate of any power, or the 
        discharge by such committee of any duty, conferred or imposed 
        upon it by the Standing Rules of the Senate or by the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946.
            (5) Subpoena authority.--All subpoenas and related legal 
        processes of the committee and its subcommittee authorized 
        under S. Res. 73, agreed to March 10, 2009 (111th Congress) are 
        authorized to continue.

SEC. 13. COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on the Judiciary is authorized from March 1, 
2011, through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $6,684,239, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $200,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $11,458,695, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $200,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $4,774,457, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $200,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 14. COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Rules and Administration is authorized 
from March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $1,840,717, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $43,750, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $7,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $3,155,515, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $75,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $12,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $1,314,798, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $31,250, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $5,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 15. COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship is 
authorized from March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its 
discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $1,732,860, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $25,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $10,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $2,970,617, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $25,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $10,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $1,237,755, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $25,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $10,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 16. COMMITTEE ON VETERANS' AFFAIRS.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with 
its jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding 
hearings, reporting such hearings, and making investigations as 
authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized from March 
1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $1,602,238, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $59,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $12,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $2,746,693, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $100,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $1,144,455, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $42,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $8,334, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 17. SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions imposed by section 104 of S. Res. 4, agreed to February 4, 
1977 (95th Congress), and in exercising the authority conferred on it 
by such section, the Special Committee on Aging is authorized from 
March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $1,937,114, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $117,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $10,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $3,320,767, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $200,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $15,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $1,383,653, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $85,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $5,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 18. SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions under S. Res. 400, agreed to May 19, 1976 (94th Congress), as 
amended by S. Res. 445, agreed to October 9, 2004 (108th Congress), in 
accordance with its jurisdiction under sections 3(a) and 17 of such S. 
Res. 400, including holding hearings, reporting such hearings, and 
making investigations as authorized by section 5 of such S. Res. 400, 
the Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized from March 1, 2011, 
through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $4,249,113, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $37,917, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $1,167, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $7,284,194, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $65,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))); and
            (2) not to exceed $4,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $3,035,081, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $27,083, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $4,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 19. COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS.

    (a) General Authority.--In carrying out its powers, duties, and 
functions imposed by section 105 of S. Res. 4, agreed to February 4, 
1977 (95th Congress), and in exercising the authority conferred on it 
by that section, the Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized from 
March 1, 2011, through February 28, 2013, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) Expenses for Period Ending September 30, 2011.--The expenses of 
the committee for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011, 
under this section shall not exceed $1,482,609, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for training 
        consultants of the professional staff of such committee (under 
        procedures specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (c) Expenses for Fiscal Year 2012 Period.--The expenses of the 
committee for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012, 
under this section shall not exceed $2,541,614, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for training 
        consultants of the professional staff of such committee (under 
        procedures specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
    (d) Expenses for Period Ending February 28, 2013.--For the period 
October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013, expenses of the committee 
under this section shall not exceed $1,059,007, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946); and
            (2) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for training 
        consultants of the professional staff of such committee (under 
        procedures specified by section 202(j) of that Act).

SEC. 20. SPECIAL RESERVE.

    (a) Establishment.--Within the funds in the account ``Expenses of 
Inquiries and Investigations'' appropriated by the legislative branch 
appropriation Acts for fiscal years 2011, 2012, and 2013, there is 
authorized to be established a special reserve to be available to any 
committee funded by this resolution as provided in subsection (b) of 
which--
            (1) an amount not to exceed $4,375,000, shall be available 
        for the period March 1, 2011, through September 30, 2011; and
            (2) an amount not to exceed $7,500,000, shall be available 
        for the period October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012; and
            (3) an amount not to exceed $3,125,000, shall be available 
        for the period October 1, 2012, through February 28, 2013.
    (b) Availability.--The special reserve authorized in subsection (a) 
shall be available to any committee--
            (1) on the basis of special need to meet unpaid obligations 
        incurred by that committee during the periods referred to in 
        paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a); and
            (2) at the request of a Chairman and Ranking Member of that 
        committee subject to the approval of the Chairman and Ranking 
        Member of the Committee on Rules and Administration.
                                 <all>
