
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                     December 28, 2012.
    Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representatives (H.R. 1) 
entitled ``An Act making appropriations for the Department of Defense 
and the other departments and agencies of the Government for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2011, and for other purposes.'', do pass with 
the following

                              AMENDMENTS:

            Strike all after the enacting clause, and insert in lieu 
      thereof:

That the following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for fiscal year 2013, and for 
other purposes, namely:

          SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DISASTER ASSISTANCE

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                         AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                          Farm Service Agency

                     emergency conservation program

    For necessary expenses for the ``Emergency Conservation Program'', 
$25,090,000, to remain available until expended, of which $15,000,000 
is for expenses resulting from a major disaster declared pursuant to 
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5121 et. seq.):  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                  emergency forest restoration program

    For necessary expenses for the ``Emergency Forest Restoration 
Program'', $58,855,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$49,010,000 is for expenses resulting from a major disaster declared 
pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et. seq.):  Provided, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                 emergency watershed protection program

    For necessary expenses for the ``Emergency Watershed Protection 
Program'', $125,055,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$77,085,000 is for expenses resulting from a major disaster declared 
pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et. seq.):  Provided, That unobligated 
balances for the ``Emergency Watershed Protection Program'' provided in 
Public Law 108-199, Public Law 109-234, and Public Law 110-28 shall be 
available for the purposes of such program for disasters, and shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, That such amounts 
are designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                      commodity assistance program

    For an additional amount for the emergency food assistance program 
as authorized by section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 
U.S.C. 2036(a)) and section 204(a)(1) of the Emergency Food Assistance 
Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 7508(a)(1)), $15,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2014:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provisions of the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983 (the ``Act''), 
the Secretary may allocate additional foods and funds for 
administrative expenses from resources specifically appropriated, 
transferred, or reprogrammed to restore to states resources used to 
assist families and individuals displaced by Hurricane Sandy among the 
states without regard to sections 204 and 214 of the Act:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 
99-177), as amended.

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'', $373,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2014, as follows--
            (1) $6,200,000 to repair and replace ocean observing and 
        coastal monitoring assets damaged by Hurricane Sandy;
            (2) $10,000,000 to repair and improve weather forecasting 
        capabilities and infrastructure;
            (3) $150,000,000 to evaluate, stabilize and restore coastal 
        ecosystems affected by Hurricane Sandy;
            (4) $56,800,000 for mapping, charting, damage assessment, 
        and marine debris coordination and remediation; and
            (5) $150,000,000, for necessary expenses related to fishery 
        disasters as declared by the Secretary of Commerce in calendar 
        year 2012:
  Provided, That the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
shall submit a spending plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate within 45 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               procurement, acquisition and construction

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Acquisition and 
Construction'', $109,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2015, as follows--
            (1) $47,000,000 for the Coastal and Estuarine Land 
        Conservation Program to support State and local restoration in 
        areas affected by Hurricane Sandy;
            (2) $9,000,000 to repair National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration (NOAA) facilities damaged by Hurricane Sandy;
            (3) $44,500,000 for repairs and upgrades to NOAA hurricane 
        reconnaissance aircraft; and
            (4) $8,500,000 for improvements to weather forecasting 
        equipment and supercomputer infrastructure:
  Provided, That NOAA shall submit a spending plan to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate within 45 
days after the date of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                      office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``General Administration, Office of 
Inspector General'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences 
of Hurricane Sandy, $20,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2013:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
Salaries and Expenses'' for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricane Sandy, $4,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2013:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Drug Enforcement Administration, 
Salaries and Expenses'' for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricane Sandy, $1,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2013:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

          Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms 
and Explosives, Salaries and Expenses'' for necessary expenses related 
to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy, $230,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2013:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                         Federal Prison System

                        buildings and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Prison System, Buildings and 
Facilities'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricane Sandy, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                SCIENCE

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

       construction and environmental compliance and restoration

    For an additional amount for ``Construction and Environmental 
Compliance and Restoration'' for repair at National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration facilities damaged by Hurricane Sandy, 
$15,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Legal Services Corporation

               payment to the legal services corporation

    For an additional amount for ``Legal Services Corporation, Payment 
to the Legal Services Corporation'' to carry out the purposes of the 
Legal Services Corporation Act by providing for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy, $1,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2013:  Provided, That the amount made 
available under this heading shall be used only to provide the mobile 
resources, technology, and disaster coordinators necessary to provide 
storm-related services to the Legal Services Corporation client 
population and only in the areas significantly affected by Hurricane 
Sandy:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be expended for any 
purpose prohibited or limited by, or contrary to any of the provisions 
of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, 
and all funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be subject to the same terms and conditions set forth 
in such sections, except that all references in sections 502 and 503 to 
1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead to 2012 and 2013, 
respectively, and except that sections 501 and 503 of Public Law 104-
134 (referenced by Public Law 105-119) shall not apply to the amount 
made available under this heading.

                               TITLE III

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$5,370,000, to remain available until September 30, 2013, for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$40,015,000, to remain available until September 30, 2013, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $8,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2013, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $3,165,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2013, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane 
Sandy:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard'', $5,775,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2013, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane 
Sandy:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              PROCUREMENT

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', 
$1,310,000, to remain available until September 30, 2015, for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                     Defense Working Capital Funds

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital Funds'', 
$24,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 2013, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE IV

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                       Corps of Engineers--Civil

                             investigations

    For an additional amount for ``Investigations'' to expedite studies 
of flood and storm damage reduction related natural disasters, 
$50,000,000 at full Federal expense, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That using $34,500,000 of the funds provided 
herein, the Secretary shall expedite and complete ongoing flood and 
storm damage reduction studies in areas that were impacted by 
Hurricanes Sandy and Isaac in the North Atlantic and Mississippi Valley 
Divisions of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers:  Provided further, That 
using up to $15,000,000 of the funds provided herein, the Secretary 
shall support an interagency planning process in conjunction with 
State, local and Tribal officials to develop plans to address the flood 
risks of vulnerable coastal populations, including innovative 
approaches to promote the long-term sustainability of the coastal 
ecosystems and communities to reduce the economic costs and risks 
associated with large-scale flood and storm events:  Provided further, 
That using $500,000 of the funds provided herein, the Secretary shall 
conduct an evaluation of the performance of existing projects 
constructed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and impacted by 
Hurricane Sandy for the purposes of determining their effectiveness and 
making recommendations for improvements thereto:  Provided further, 
That as a part of the study, the Secretary shall identify institutional 
and other barriers to providing comprehensive protection to affected 
coastal areas and shall provide this report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate within 
120 days of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That the amounts 
in this paragraph are designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, That the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall 
provide a monthly report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation and 
obligation of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after 
enactment of this Act.

                              construction

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'' to rehabilitate, 
repair and construct U.S. Army Corps of Engineers projects related to 
the consequences of natural disasters, $3,461,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That $2,902,000,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading shall be used to reduce future flood risk 
in ways that will support the long-term sustainability of the coastal 
ecosystem and communities and reduce the economic costs and risks 
associated with large-scale flood and storm events that occurred in 
2012 along the Gulf Coast and Atlantic Coast within the boundaries of 
the North Atlantic and Mississippi Valley Divisions of the Corps that 
were affected by Hurricanes Sandy and Isaac:  Provided further, That 
efforts using these funds shall incorporate current science and 
engineering standards in constructing previously authorized Corps 
projects designed to reduce flood and storm damage risks and modifying 
existing Corps projects that do not meet these standards, with such 
modifications as the Secretary determines are necessary to incorporate 
these standards or to meet the goal of providing sustainable reduction 
to flooding and storm damage risks:  Provided further, That these funds 
may be used to construct any project that is currently under study by 
the Corps for reducing flooding and storm damage risks in areas along 
the Atlantic coast within the North Atlantic or the Gulf Coast within 
the Mississippi Valley Divisions of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
that suffered direct surge inundation impacts and significant monetary 
damages from Hurricanes Isaac or Sandy if the study demonstrates that 
the project will cost-effectively reduce those risks and is 
environmentally acceptable and technically feasible:  Provided further, 
That local interests shall provide all lands, easements, rights-of-way, 
relocations and disposal areas (LERRDs) necessary for projects using 
these funds at no cost to the Government:  Provided further, That cost 
sharing for implementation of any projects using these funds shall be 
90 percent Federal and 10 percent non-Federal exclusive of LERRDs:  
Provided further, That the non-Federal cash contribution for projects 
using these funds shall be financed in accordance with the provisions 
of section 103(k) of Public Law 99-662 over a period of 30 years from 
the date of completion of the project or separable element:  Provided 
further, That for these projects, the provisions of section 902 of the 
Water Resources Development Act of 1986 shall not apply to these funds: 
 Provided further, That the Secretary may transfer up to $499,000,000 
of the funds provided under this heading to other U.S. Army Corps of 
Engineers Accounts to address damages from previous natural disasters 
following normal policies and cost sharing:  Provided further, That the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate shall be notified at least 15 days in advance of any such 
transfer:  Provided further, That up to $51,000,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading shall be used to expedite continuing 
authorities projects along the coastal areas in States impacted by 
Hurricane Sandy within the boundaries of the North Atlantic Division:  
Provided further, That $9,000,000 of the funds provided under this 
heading shall be used for repairs to projects that were under 
construction and damaged by the impacts of Hurricane Sandy:  Provided 
further, That any projects using funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be initiated only after non-Federal interests have entered into 
binding agreements with the Secretary requiring the non-Federal 
interests to pay 100 percent of the operation, maintenance, repair, 
replacement, and rehabilitation costs of the project and to hold and 
save the United States free from damages due to the construction or 
operation and maintenance of the project, except for damages due to the 
fault or negligence of the United States or its contractors:  Provided 
further, That the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a monthly report detailing the 
allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning not later than 60 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                       operation and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance'', 
$821,000,000, to remain available until expended to dredge Federal 
navigation channels and repair damage to Corps projects nationwide 
related to natural disasters:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985:  Provided further, That the Assistant Secretary of the 
Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning not 
later than 60 days after enactment of this Act.

                 flood control and coastal emergencies

    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', $1,008,000,000, to remain available until expended to 
prepare for flood, hurricane, and other natural disasters and support 
emergency operations, repairs and other activities in response to 
flood, hurricanes or other natural disasters as authorized by law:  
Provided, That $430,000,000 of the funds provided herein shall be 
utilized by the Corps to restore projects impacted by Hurricane Sandy 
in the North Atlantic Division of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to 
design profiles of the authorized projects:  Provided further, That the 
provisions of section 902 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
1986 shall not apply to funds provided under this heading:  Provided 
further, That the amounts in this paragraph are designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985:  Provided further, That the Assistant Secretary of the 
Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning not 
later than 60 days after enactment of this Act.

                                expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Expenses'' for increased efforts to 
oversee emergency response and recovery activities related to natural 
disasters, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, 
That the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall provide 
a monthly report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation and obligation 
of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after enactment of 
this Act.

                                TITLE V

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                    General Services Administration

                        real property activities

                         federal buildings fund

    For an additional amount to be deposited in the ``Federal Buildings 
Fund'', $7,000,000, to remain available until expended, notwithstanding 
40 U.S.C. 3307, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricane Sandy, including repair and alteration of buildings under the 
custody and control of the Administrator of General Services, and real 
property management and related activities not otherwise provided for:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Small Business Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
$40,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2014, of which 
$20,000,000 is for grants to or cooperative agreements with 
organizations to provide technical assistance related to disaster 
recovery, response, and long-term resiliency to small businesses that 
are recovering from Hurricane Sandy; and of which $20,000,000 is for 
grants or cooperative agreements for public-private partnerships to 
provide long-term economic development assistance to industries and/or 
regions affected by Hurricane Sandy through economic development 
initiatives, including innovation clusters, industry accelerators, 
supply-chain support, commercialization, and workforce development:  
Provided, That the Small Business Administration (SBA) shall expedite 
the delivery of assistance in disaster-affected areas by awarding 
grants or cooperative agreements for technical assistance only to 
current recipients of SBA grants or cooperative agreements using a 
streamlined application process that relies, to the maximum extent 
practicable, upon previously submitted documentation:  Provided 
further, That the Administrator of the Small Business Administration 
shall waive the matching requirements under section 21(a)(4)(A) and 
29(c) of the Small Business Act for any grant made using funds made 
available under this heading:  Provided further, That in designing 
appropriate economic development initiatives and identifying those 
regions and industries most affected by Hurricane Sandy, the SBA shall 
work with other Federal agencies, State and local economic development 
entities, institutions of higher learning, and private sector partners: 
 Provided further, That grants or cooperative agreements for public-
private partnerships may be awarded to public or private nonprofit 
organizations, or any combination thereof:  Provided further, That no 
later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, or no less 
than 7 days prior to obligation of funds, whichever occurs earlier, the 
SBA shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan for funds 
provided under this heading:  Provided further, That such amounts are 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy and 
other disasters, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     disaster loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Loans Program Account'' for 
the cost of direct loans authorized by section 7(b) of the Small 
Business Act, for necessary expenses related to Hurricane Sandy and 
other disasters, $500,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974:  Provided further, That in addition, for administrative expenses 
to carry out the direct loan program authorized by section 7(b) of the 
Small Business Act in response to Hurricane Sandy and other disasters, 
$260,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which $250,000,000 
is for direct administrative expenses of loan making and servicing to 
carry out the direct loan program, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses; and of which 
$10,000,000 is for indirect administrative expenses for the direct loan 
program, which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriations 
for Salaries and Expenses:  Provided further, That such amounts are 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 501.  Section 7(d)(6) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
636(d)(6)) is amended by inserting after ``which are made under 
paragraph (1) of subsection (b)'' the following: ``: Provided further, 
That the Administrator, in obtaining the best available collateral for 
a loan of not more than $200,000 under paragraph (1) or (2) of 
subsection (b) relating to damage to or destruction of the property of, 
or economic injury to, a small business concern, shall not require the 
owner of the small business concern to use the primary residence of the 
owner as collateral if the Administrator determines that the owner has 
other assets with a value equal to or greater than the amount of the 
loan that could be used as collateral for the loan: Provided further, 
That nothing in the preceding proviso may be construed to reduce the 
amount of collateral required by the Administrator in connection with a 
loan described in the preceding proviso or to modify the standards used 
to evaluate the quality (rather than the type) of such collateral''.

                                TITLE VI

                    DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                   U.S. Customs and Border Protection

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy, 
$1,667,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985:  Provided further, That a description of all property to 
be replaced, with associated costs, shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives no later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

                U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy, 
$855,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  
Provided further, That a description of all property to be replaced, 
with associated costs, shall be submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives no later 
than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                              Coast Guard

              acquisition, construction, and improvements

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Acquisition, Construction, and 
Improvements'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricane Sandy, $274,233,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2017:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding the transfer limitation 
contained in section 503 of division D of Public Law 112-74, such 
funding may be transferred to other Coast Guard appropriations after 
notification as required in accordance with such section:  Provided 
further, That a description all facilities and property to be 
reconstructed and restored, with associated costs and time lines, shall 
be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives no later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

                      United States Secret Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy, 
$300,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  
Provided further, That a description of all property to be replaced, 
with associated costs, shall be submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives no later 
than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

                          disaster relief fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for the ``Disaster Relief Fund'' in 
carrying out the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), $11,487,735,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of the total amount provided, 
$5,379,000,000 shall be for major disasters declared pursuant to the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):  Provided further, That the amount in the 
previous proviso is designated by the Congress as being for disaster 
relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount provided, $6,108,735,000 is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 which 
shall be for major disasters declared pursuant to the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 
et seq.):  Provided further, That of the total amount provided, 
$3,000,000 shall be transferred to the Department of Homeland Security 
``Office of Inspector General'' for audits and investigations related 
to disasters.

            Disaster Assistance Direct Loan Program Account

    For an additional amount for the cost of direct loans, 
$300,000,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized by 
section 417 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5184), of which up to $4,000,000 is for 
administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program:  
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974:  Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize 
gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to 
exceed $400,000,000:  Provided further, That these amounts are 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                         Science and Technology

           research, development, acquisition, and operations

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Acquisition, 
and Operations'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricane Sandy, $3,249,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2017:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   Domestic Nuclear Detection Office

                          systems acquisition

    For an additional amount for ``Systems Acquisition'' for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy for replacing 
or repairing U.S. Customs and Border Protection equipment, $3,869,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2015:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 601. (a) Section 1309(a) of the National Flood Insurance Act 
of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4016(a)) is amended by striking ``$20,725,000,000'' 
and inserting ``$30,425,000,000''.
    (b) The amount provided by this section is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 and as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4(g) of 
the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall be 
considered to have taken effect on December 12, 2012.
    Sec. 602.  The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, in cooperation with representatives of State, tribal, and local 
governments may give greater weight to the factors considered under 
section 206.48(b)(3) of title 44, Code of Federal Regulations, to 
accurately measure the acute needs of a population following a disaster 
in order to expedite a declaration of Individual Assistance under the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
    Sec. 603.  For determinations regarding compliance with codes and 
standards under the Federal Emergency Management Agency Public 
Assistance program (42 U.S.C. 5172), the Administrator of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency, for major disasters declared on or after 
August 27, 2011, shall consider eligible the costs required to comply 
with a State's Stream Alteration General Permit process, including any 
design standards required to be met as a condition of permit issuance.
    Sec. 604.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management may recommend to the 
President an increase in the Federal cost share of the eligible cost of 
permanent work under section 406 and of emergency work under section 
403 and section 407 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172) for damages resulting from 
Hurricane Sandy without delay.
    Sec. 605.  In administering the funds made available to address any 
major disaster declared during the period beginning on August 27, 2011 
and ending on December 5, 2012, the Administrator of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency shall establish a pilot program for the 
relocation of State facilities under section 406 of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172), 
under which the Administrator may waive, or specify alternative 
requirements for, any regulation the Administrator administers to 
provide assistance, consistent with the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), for the permanent relocation of 
State facilities, including administrative office buildings, medical 
facilities, laboratories, and related operating infrastructure 
(including heat, sewage, mechanical, electrical, and plumbing), that 
were significantly damaged as a result of the major disaster, are 
subject to flood risk, and are otherwise eligible for repair, 
restoration, reconstruction, or replacement under section 406 of that 
Act, if the Administrator determines that such relocation is 
practicable, and will be cost effective or more appropriate than 
repairing, restoring, reconstructing, or replacing the facility in its 
pre-disaster location, and if such relocation will effectively mitigate 
the flood risk to the facility.

                                 levees

    Sec. 606. (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of 
        the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
            (2) the term ``covered hazard mitigation land'' means 
        land--
                    (A) acquired and deed restricted under section 
                404(b) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
                Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c(b)) before, 
                on, or after the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) that is located--
                            (i) in a West North Central State; and
                            (ii) in a community that--
                                    (I) is participating in the 
                                National Flood Insurance Program on the 
                                date on which a State, local, or tribal 
                                government submits an application 
                                requesting to construct a permanent 
                                flood risk reduction levee under 
                                subsection (b); and
                                    (II) certifies to the Administrator 
                                and the Chief of Engineers that the 
                                community will continue to participate 
                                in the National Flood Insurance 
                                Program.
    (b) Authority.--Notwithstanding clause (i) or (ii) of section 
404(b)(2)(B) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c(b)(2)(B)), the Administrator shall 
approve the construction of a permanent flood risk reduction levee by a 
State, local, or tribal government on covered hazard mitigation land if 
the Administrator and the Chief of Engineers determine, through a 
process established by the Administrator and Chief of Engineers and 
funded entirely by the State, local, or tribal government seeking to 
construct the proposed levee, that--
            (1) construction of the proposed permanent flood risk 
        reduction levee would more effectively mitigate against 
        flooding risk than an open floodplain or other flood risk 
        reduction measures;
            (2) the proposed permanent flood risk reduction levee 
        complies with Federal, State, and local requirements, including 
        mitigation of adverse impacts and implementation of floodplain 
        management requirements, which shall include an evaluation of 
        whether the construction, operation, and maintenance of the 
        proposed levee would continue to meet best available industry 
        standards and practices and would be the most cost-effective 
        measure to protect against the assessed flood risk and 
        minimizes future costs to the Federal Government;
            (3) the State, local, or tribal government seeking to 
        construct the proposed levee has provided an adequate 
        maintenance plan that documents the procedures the State, 
        local, or tribal government will use to ensure that the 
        stability, height, and overall integrity of the proposed levee 
        and the structure and systems of the proposed levee are 
        maintained, including--
                    (A) specifying the maintenance activities to be 
                performed;
                    (B) specifying the frequency with which maintenance 
                activities will be performed;
                    (C) specifying the person responsible for 
                performing each maintenance activity (by name or 
                title);
                    (D) detailing the plan for financing the 
                maintenance of the levee; and
                    (E) documenting the ability of the State, local, or 
                tribal government to finance the maintenance of the 
                levee.
    (c) Maintenance Certification.--
            (1) In general.--A State, local, or tribal government that 
        constructs a permanent flood risk reduction levee under 
        subsection (b) shall submit to the Administrator and the Chief 
        of Engineers an annual certification indicating whether the 
        State, local, or tribal government is in compliance with the 
        maintenance plan provided under subsection (b)(3).
            (2) Review.--The Chief of Engineers shall review a 
        certification submitted under paragraph (1) and determine 
        whether the State, local, or tribal government has complied 
        with the maintenance plan.
    Sec. 607.  The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency shall cancel the liquidated balances of all remaining 
uncancelled or partially cancelled loans disbursed under the Community 
Disaster Loan Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-88) and the Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, 
and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234), as amended by 
section 4502 of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina 
Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007 (Public Law 
110-28) to the extent that revenues of the local government during the 
period following the major disaster are insufficient to meet the budget 
of the local government, including additional disaster-related expenses 
of a municipal character. In calculating a community's revenues while 
determining cancellation, the Administrator shall exclude revenues for 
special districts and any other revenues that are required by law to be 
disbursed to other units of local government or used for specific 
purposes more limited than the scope allowed by the General Fund. In 
calculating a community's expenses, the Administrator shall include 
disaster-related capital expenses for which the community has not been 
reimbursed by Federal or insurance proceeds, debt service expenses, and 
accrued but unpaid uncompensated absences (vacation and sick pay). In 
calculating the operating deficit of the local government, the 
Administrator shall also consider all interfund transfers. When 
considering the period following the disaster, the Administrator may 
consider a period of 3, 5, or 7 full fiscal years after the disaster, 
beginning on the date of the declaration, in determining eligibility 
for cancellation. The criteria for cancellation do not apply to those 
loans already cancelled in full. Applicants shall submit supplemental 
documentation in support of their applications for cancellation on or 
before April 30, 2014, and the Administrator shall issue determinations 
and resolve any appeals on or before April 30, 2015. Loans not 
cancelled in full shall be repaid not later than September 30, 2035. 
The Administrator may use funds provided under Public Law 109-88 to 
reimburse those communities that have repaid all or a portion of loans, 
including interest, provided as Special Community Disaster Loans under 
Public Law 109-88 or Public Law 109-234, as amended by section 4502 of 
Public Law 110-28. Further, the Administrator may use funds provided 
under Public Law 109-88 for necessary expenses to carry out this 
provision:  Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.
    Sec. 608.  The Inspector General shall review the applications for 
public assistance provided through the Disaster Relief Fund with a 
project cost that exceeds $10,000,000 and the resulting decisions 
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency for category A debris 
removal for DR-1786 upon receipt of a request from an applicant made no 
earlier than 90 days after filing an appeal with the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency without regard to whether the Administrator of the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency has issued a final agency 
determination on the application for assistance:  Provided, That not 
later than 180 days after the date of such request, the Inspector 
General shall determine whether the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
correctly applied its rules and regulations to determine eligibility of 
the applicant's claim:  Provided further, That if the Inspector General 
finds that the Federal Emergency Management Agency determinations 
related to eligibility and cost involved a misapplication of its rules 
and regulations, the applicant may submit the dispute to the 
arbitration process established under the authority granted under 
section 601 of Public Law 111-5 not later than 15 days after the date 
of issuance of the Inspector General's finding in the previous proviso: 
 Provided further, That if the Inspector General finds that the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency provided unauthorized funding, that the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency shall take corrective action.

                           disaster recovery

    Sec. 609. (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
``Disaster Recovery Act of 2012''.
    (b) Hazard Mitigation.--
            (1) In general.--Section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford 
        Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c) 
        is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Expedited Procedures.--
            ``(1) In general.--For the purpose of providing assistance 
        under this section, the President shall ensure that--
                    ``(A) adequate resources are devoted to ensuring 
                that applicable environmental reviews under the 
                National Environmental Policy Act and historic 
                preservation reviews under the National Historic 
                Preservation Act are completed on an expeditious basis; 
                and
                    ``(B) the shortest existing applicable process 
                under the National Environmental Policy Act and the 
                National Historic Preservation Act shall be utilized.
            ``(2) Authority for other expedited procedures.--The 
        President may utilize expedited procedures in addition to those 
        required under paragraph (1) for the purpose of providing 
        assistance under this section, such as those under the 
        Prototype Programmatic Agreement of the Federal Emergency 
        Management Agency, for the consideration of multiple structures 
        as a group and for an analysis of the cost-effectiveness and 
        fulfillment of cost-share requirements for proposed hazard 
        mitigation measures.
    ``(e) Advance Assistance.--The President may provide not more than 
25 percent of the amount of the estimated cost of hazard mitigation 
measures to a State grantee eligible for a grant under this section 
before eligible costs are incurred.''.
            (2) Establishment of criteria relating to administration of 
        hazard mitigation assistance by states.--Section 404(c)(2) of 
        the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c(c)(2)) is amended by inserting ``Until 
        such time as the Administrator promulgates regulations to 
        implement this paragraph, the Administrator may waive notice 
        and comment rulemaking if the Administrator determines doing so 
        is necessary to expeditiously implement this section and may 
        carry out the alternative procedures under this section as a 
        pilot program'' after ``applications submitted under paragraph 
        (1).''.
            (3) Applicability.--The authority under the amendments made 
        by this subsection shall apply for--
                    (A) any major disaster or emergency declared under 
                the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
                Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) on or after the 
                date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) a major disaster or emergency declared before 
                the date of enactment of this Act for which the period 
                for processing requests for assistance has not ended on 
                the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Public Assistance Program Alternative Procedures.--Title IV of 
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5170 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating section 425 (42 U.S.C. 5189e) relating 
        to essential service providers, as added by section 607 of the 
        SAFE Port Act (Public Law 109-347; 120 Stat. 1941) as section 
        427; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 428. PUBLIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAM ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency may approve projects under the alternative procedures 
adopted under this section for--
            ``(1) any major disaster or emergency declared on or after 
        the date of enactment of this section; and
            ``(2) any project relating to a major disaster or emergency 
        declared before the date of enactment of this section for which 
        construction has not begun on the date of enactment of this 
        section.
    ``(b) Adoption.--The Administrator, in coordination with States, 
tribal, and local governments, and owners or operators of private 
nonprofit facilities, may adopt alternative procedures to administer 
assistance provided under sections 403(a)(3)(A), 406, 407, and 
502(a)(5).
    ``(c) Goals.--Any procedures adopted under subsection (b) shall 
further the goals of--
            ``(1) reducing the costs to the Federal Government of 
        providing such assistance;
            ``(2) increasing flexibility in the administration of such 
        assistance;
            ``(3) expediting the provision of such assistance to 
        States, tribal, and local governments and to owners or 
        operators of private nonprofit facilities; and
            ``(4) providing financial incentives and disincentives for 
        the State, tribal, or local government, or owner or operator of 
        a private nonprofit facility for the timely and cost-effective 
        completion of projects with such assistance.
    ``(d) Voluntary Participation.--Participation in alternative 
procedures adopted under this section shall be at the election of a 
State, tribal, or local government, or owner or operator of a private 
nonprofit facility consistent with procedures determined by the 
Administrator.
    ``(e) Requirements for Procedures.--The alternative procedures 
adopted under subsection (b) shall include--
            ``(1) for repair, restoration, and replacement of damaged 
        facilities under section 406--
                    ``(A) making grants on the basis of fixed 
                estimates, if the State, tribal, or local government, 
                or owner or operator of the private nonprofit facility 
                agrees to be responsible for any actual costs that 
                exceed the estimate;
                    ``(B) providing an option for a State, tribal, or 
                local government, or owner or operator of a private 
                nonprofit facility to elect to receive an in-lieu 
                contribution, without reduction, on the basis of 
                estimates of--
                            ``(i) the cost of repair, restoration, 
                        reconstruction, or replacement of a public 
                        facility owned or controlled by the State, 
                        tribal, or local government or the owner or 
                        operator of a private nonprofit facility; and
                            ``(ii) management expenses;
                    ``(C) consolidating, to the extent determined 
                appropriate by the Administrator, the facilities of a 
                State, tribal, or local government, or owner or 
                operator of a private nonprofit facility as a single 
                project based upon the estimates adopted under the 
                procedures;
                    ``(D) if the actual costs of a project completed 
                under the procedures are less than the estimated costs 
                thereof, the Administrator may permit a grantee or 
                subgrantee to use all or part of the excess funds for 
                purposes of--
                            ``(i) cost-effective activities that reduce 
                        the risk of future damage, hardship, or 
                        suffering from a major disaster; and
                            ``(ii) other activities to improve future 
                        Public Assistance operations or planning;
                    ``(E) in determining eligible cost under section 
                406, the Administrator shall make available, at an 
                applicant's request and where the Federal Emergency 
                Management Agency or the certified cost estimate 
                prepared by the applicant's professionally licensed 
                engineers has estimated an eligible Federal share for a 
                project of not less than $5,000,000, an independent 
                expert panel to validate the estimated eligible cost 
                consistent with applicable regulations and policies 
                implementing this section;
                    ``(F) in determining eligible cost under section 
                406, the Administrator shall, at the applicant's 
                request, consider properly conducted and certified cost 
                estimates prepared by professionally licensed engineers 
                (mutually agreed upon by the Administrator and the 
                applicant), to the extent that such estimates comply 
                with applicable regulation, policy, and guidance; and
            ``(2) for debris removal under sections 403(a)(3)(A), 407, 
        and 502(a)(5)--
                    ``(A) making grants on the basis of fixed estimates 
                to provide financial incentives and disincentives for 
                the timely or cost effective completion if the State, 
                tribal, or local government, or owner or operator of 
                the private nonprofit facility agrees to be responsible 
                to pay for any actual costs that exceed the estimate;
                    ``(B) using a sliding scale for the Federal share 
                for removal of debris and wreckage based on the time it 
                takes to complete debris and wreckage removal;
                    ``(C) allowing use of program income from recycled 
                debris without offset to the grant amount;
                    ``(D) reimbursing base and overtime wages for 
                employees and extra hires of a State, tribal, or local 
                government, or owner or operator of a private nonprofit 
                facility performing or administering debris and 
                wreckage removal;
                    ``(E) providing incentives to State, tribal, and 
                local governments to have a debris management plan 
                approved by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and 
                have pre-qualified one or more debris and wreckage 
                removal contractors before the date of declaration of 
                the major disaster; and
                    ``(F) if the actual costs of projects under 
                subparagraph (A) are less than the estimated costs of 
                the project, the Administrator may permit a grantee or 
                subgrantee to use all or part of the excess funds for--
                            ``(i) debris management planning;
                            ``(ii) acquisition of debris management 
                        equipment for current or future use; and
                            ``(iii) other activities to improve future 
                        debris removal operations, as determined by the 
                        Administrator.
    ``(f) Waiver Authority.--Until such time as the Administrator 
promulgates regulations to implement this section, the Administrator 
may waive notice and comment rulemaking, if the Administrator 
determines the waiver is necessary to expeditiously implement this 
section, and may carry out the alternative procedures under this 
section as a pilot program.
    ``(g) Reimbursement.--The guidelines for reimbursement for costs 
under subsection (e)(2)(D) shall assure that no State, tribal, or local 
government is denied reimbursement for overtime payments that are 
required pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 
201 et seq.).''.
    (d) Simplified Procedures.--Section 422 of the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5189) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``If the Federal estimate'' and inserting 
        the following:
    ``(a) In General.--If the Federal estimate'';
            (2) by inserting ``or, if the Administrator has established 
        a threshold under subsection (b), the amount established under 
        subsection (b)'' after ``$35,000'' the first place it appears;
            (3) by inserting ``or, if applicable, the amount 
        established under subsection (b),'' after ``$35,000 amount''; 
        and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Threshold.--
            ``(1) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of the Disaster Recovery Act of 2012, the President, 
        acting through the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
        Management Agency (in this section referred to as the 
        `Administrator'), shall--
                    ``(A) complete an analysis to determine whether an 
                increase in the threshold for eligibility under 
                subsection (a) is appropriate, which shall include 
                consideration of cost-effectiveness, speed of recovery, 
                capacity of grantees, past performance, and 
                accountability measures; and
                    ``(B) submit to the appropriate committees of the 
                Congress (as defined in section 602 of the Post-Katrina 
                Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006 (6 U.S.C. 701)) 
                a report regarding the analysis conducted under 
                subparagraph (A).
            ``(2) Amount.--After the Administrator submits the report 
        required under paragraph (1), the President shall direct the 
        Administrator to--
                    ``(A) immediately establish a threshold for 
                eligibility under this section in an appropriate 
                amount, without regard to chapter 5 of title 5, United 
                States Code; and
                    ``(B) adjust the threshold annually to reflect 
                changes in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban 
                Consumers published by the Department of Labor.
            ``(3) Review.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
        which the Administrator establishes a threshold under paragraph 
        (2), and every 3 years thereafter, the President, acting 
        through the Administrator, shall review the threshold for 
        eligibility under this section.''.
    (e) Essential Assistance.--Section 403 of the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170b) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Salaries and Benefits.--
            ``(1) In general.--If the President declares a major 
        disaster or emergency for an area within the jurisdiction of a 
        State, tribal, or local government, the President may reimburse 
        the State, tribal, or local government for costs relating to--
                    ``(A) basic pay and benefits for permanent 
                employees of the State, tribal, or local government 
                conducting emergency protective measures under this 
                section, if--
                            ``(i) the work is not typically performed 
                        by the employees; and
                            ``(ii) the type of work may otherwise be 
                        carried out by contract or agreement with 
                        private organizations, firms, or individuals; 
                        or
                    ``(B) overtime and hazardous duty compensation for 
                permanent employees of the State, tribal, or local 
                government conducting emergency protective measures 
                under this section.
            ``(2) Overtime.--The guidelines for reimbursement for costs 
        under paragraph (1) shall ensure that no State, tribal, or 
        local government is denied reimbursement for overtime payments 
        that are required pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
        1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.).
            ``(3) No effect on mutual aid pacts.--Nothing in this 
        subsection shall effect the ability of the President to 
        reimburse labor force expenses provided pursuant to an 
        authorized mutual aid pact.''.
    (f) Unified Federal Review.--Title IV of the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended by subsection 
(c), is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 429. UNIFIED FEDERAL REVIEW.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of the Disaster Recovery Act of 2012, and in consultation 
with the Council on Environmental Quality and the Advisory Council on 
Historic Preservation, the President shall establish an expedited and 
unified interagency review process to ensure compliance with 
environmental and historic requirements under Federal law relating to 
disaster recovery projects, in order to expedite the recovery process, 
consistent with applicable law.
    ``(b) Contents.--The review process established under this section 
shall include mechanisms to expeditiously address delays that may occur 
during the recovery from a major disaster, and shall be updated as 
appropriate, consistent with applicable law.''.
    (g) Dispute Resolution Pilot Program.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection--
                    (A) the term ``Administrator'' means the 
                Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
                Agency; and
                    (B) the term ``eligible assistance'' means 
                assistance--
                            (i) under section 403, 406, or 407 of the 
                        Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
                        Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170b, 
                        5172, 5173);
                            (ii) for which the legitimate amount in 
                        dispute is not less than $1,000,000, which the 
                        Administrator shall adjust annually to reflect 
                        changes in the Consumer Price Index for all 
                        Urban Consumers published by the Department of 
                        Labor; and
                            (iii) for which the applicant has a non-
                        Federal share.
            (2) Procedures.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, and in order to 
                facilitate an efficient recovery from major disasters, 
                the Administrator shall establish procedures under 
                which an applicant may request the use of alternative 
                dispute resolution, including arbitration by an 
                independent review panel, to resolve disputes relating 
                to eligible assistance.
                    (B) Binding effect.--A decision by an independent 
                review panel under this subsection shall be binding 
                upon the parties to the dispute.
                    (C) Considerations.--The procedures established 
                under this subsection shall--
                            (i) allow a party of a dispute relating to 
                        eligible assistance to request an independent 
                        review panel for the review;
                            (ii) require a party requesting an 
                        independent review panel as described in clause 
                        (i) to agree to forego rights to any further 
                        appeal of the dispute relating to any eligible 
                        assistance;
                            (iii) require that the sponsor of an 
                        independent review panel for any alternative 
                        dispute resolution under this subsection shall 
                        be--
                                    (I) an individual or entity 
                                unaffiliated with the dispute (which 
                                may include a Federal agency, an 
                                administrative law judge, or a 
                                reemployed annuitant who was an 
                                employee of the Federal Government) 
                                selected by the Administrator; and
                                    (II) responsible for identifying 
                                and maintaining an adequate number of 
                                independent experts qualified to review 
                                and resolve disputes under this 
                                subsection;
                            (iv) require an independent review panel 
                        to--
                                    (I) resolve any remaining disputed 
                                issue in accordance with all applicable 
                                laws, regulations, and Federal 
                                Emergency Management Agency 
                                interpretations of those laws through 
                                its published policies and guidance;
                                    (II) consider only evidence 
                                contained in the administrative record, 
                                as it existed at the time at which the 
                                Federal Emergency Management Agency 
                                made its initial decision;
                                    (III) only set aside a decision of 
                                the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
                                found to be arbitrary, capricious, an 
                                abuse of discretion, or otherwise not 
                                in accordance with law; and
                                    (IV) in the case of a finding of 
                                material fact adverse to the claimant 
                                made on first appeal, only set aside or 
                                reverse such finding if the finding is 
                                clearly erroneous;
                            (v) require an independent review panel to 
                        expeditiously issue a written decision for any 
                        alternative dispute resolution under this 
                        subsection; and
                            (vi) direct that if an independent review 
                        panel for any alternative dispute resolution 
                        under this subsection determines that the basis 
                        upon which a party submits a request for 
                        alternative dispute resolution is frivolous, 
                        the independent review panel shall direct the 
                        party to pay the reasonable costs of the 
                        Federal Emergency Management Agency relating to 
                        the review by the independent review panel.
                    (D) Funds received.--Any funds received by the 
                Federal Emergency Management Agency under the authority 
                under this subsection shall be deposited to the credit 
                of the appropriation or appropriations available for 
                the eligible assistance in dispute on the date on which 
                the funds are received.
            (3) Sunset.--A request for review by an independent review 
        panel under this subsection may not be made after December 31, 
        2015.
            (4) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the 
                termination of authority under this subsection pursuant 
                to paragraph (3), the Comptroller General of the United 
                States shall submit to the Committee on Homeland 
                Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
                House of Representatives a report analyzing the 
                effectiveness of the program under this subsection.
                    (B) Contents.--The report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include--
                            (i) a determination of the availability of 
                        data required to complete the report;
                            (ii) an assessment of the effectiveness of 
                        the program under this subsection, including an 
                        assessment of whether the program expedited or 
                        delayed the disaster recovery process;
                            (iii) an assessment of whether the program 
                        increased or decreased costs to administer 
                        section 403, 406, or 407 of the Robert T. 
                        Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
                        Assistance Act;
                            (iv) an assessment of the procedures and 
                        safeguards that the independent review panels 
                        established to ensure objectivity and accuracy, 
                        and the extent to which they followed those 
                        procedures and safeguards;
                            (v) a recommendation as to whether any 
                        aspect of the program under this subsection 
                        should be made a permanent authority; and
                            (vi) recommendations for any modifications 
                        to the authority or the administration of the 
                        authority under this subsection in order to 
                        improve the disaster recovery process.
    (h) Individual Assistance Factors.--In order to provide more 
objective criteria for evaluating the need for assistance to 
individuals and to speed a declaration of a major disaster or emergency 
under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency, in cooperation with representatives of State, 
tribal, and local emergency management agencies, shall review, update, 
and revise through rulemaking the factors considered under section 
206.48 of title 44, Code of Federal Regulations (including section 
206.48(b)(2) of such title relating to trauma and the specific 
conditions or losses that contribute to trauma), to measure the 
severity, magnitude, and impact of a disaster.
    (i) Child Care.--Section 408(e)(1) of the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5174(e)(1)) is 
amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading, by inserting ``Child care,'' 
        after ``Dental,''; and
            (2) by inserting ``child care,'' after ``dental,''.
    (j) Temporary Housing.--Section 408(c)(1)(B) of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5174(c)(1)(B)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating clauses (ii) and (iii) as clauses 
        (iii) and (iv), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after clause (i) the following:
                            ``(ii) Lease and repair of rental units for 
                        temporary housing.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--The President, 
                                to the extent it would be a cost 
                                effective alternative to other 
                                temporary housing options, may--
                                            ``(aa) enter into lease 
                                        agreements with owners of 
                                        multifamily rental property 
                                        located in areas covered by a 
                                        major disaster declaration to 
                                        house individuals and 
                                        households eligible for 
                                        assistance under this section; 
                                        and
                                            ``(bb) make repairs or 
                                        improvement to properties under 
                                        such lease agreements, to the 
                                        extent necessary to serve as 
                                        safe and adequate temporary 
                                        housing.
                                    ``(II) Improvements or repairs.--
                                Under the terms of any lease agreement 
                                for property entered into under this 
                                subsection, the value of the 
                                improvements or repairs shall be 
                                deducted from the value of the lease 
                                agreement; and may not exceed the value 
                                of the lease agreement.
                                    ``(III) Period of assistance.--The 
                                President may not provide direct 
                                assistance under this clause with 
                                respect to a major disaster after the 
                                end of the 18-month period beginning on 
                                the date of declaration of the major 
                                disaster by the President, except that 
                                the President may extend that period if 
                                the President determines that due to 
                                extraordinary circumstances an 
                                extension would be in the public 
                                interest.''; and
            (3) in clause (iv), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``clause (ii)'' and inserting ``clause (iii)''.
    (k) Tribal Requests for a Major Disaster or Emergency Declaration 
Under the Stafford Act.--
            (1) Major disaster requests.--Section 401 of the Robert T. 
        Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
        U.S.C. 5170) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``All requests for a declaration'' 
                and inserting ``(a) In General.--All requests for a 
                declaration''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Indian Tribal Government Requests.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Chief Executive of an affected 
        Indian tribal government may submit a request for a declaration 
        by the President that a major disaster exists consistent with 
        the requirements of subsection (a).
            ``(2) References.--In implementing assistance authorized by 
        the President under this Act in response to a request of the 
        Chief Executive of an affected Indian tribal government for a 
        major disaster declaration, any reference in this Act, except 
        sections 310 and 326, to a State or the Governor of a State is 
        deemed to refer to an affected Indian tribal government or the 
        Chief Executive of an affected Indian tribal government, as 
        appropriate.
            ``(3) Savings provision.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        prohibit an Indian tribal government from receiving assistance 
        under this Act through a declaration made by the President at 
        the request of a State under subsection (a) if the President 
        does not make a declaration under this subsection for the same 
        incident.
    ``(c) Cost Share Adjustments for Indian Tribal Governments.--
            ``(1) In general.--In providing assistance to an Indian 
        tribal government under this Act, the President may waive or 
        adjust any payment of a non-Federal contribution with respect 
        to the assistance if--
                    ``(A) the President has the authority to waive or 
                adjust the payment under another provision of this Act; 
                and
                    ``(B) the President determines that the waiver or 
                adjustment is necessary and appropriate.
            ``(2) Criteria for making determinations.--The President 
        shall establish criteria for making determinations under 
        paragraph (1)(B).''.
            (2) Emergency requests.--Section 501 of the Robert T. 
        Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
        U.S.C. 5191) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Indian Tribal Government Requests.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Chief Executive of an affected 
        Indian tribal government may submit a request for a declaration 
        by the President that an emergency exists consistent with the 
        requirements of subsection (a).
            ``(2) References.--In implementing assistance authorized by 
        the President under this Act in response to a request of the 
        Chief Executive of an affected Indian tribal government for an 
        emergency declaration, any reference in this Act, except 
        sections 310 and 326, to a State or the Governor of a State is 
        deemed to refer to an affected Indian tribal government or the 
        Chief Executive of an affected Indian tribal government, as 
        appropriate.
            ``(3) Savings provision.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        prohibit an Indian tribal government from receiving assistance 
        under this Act through a declaration made by the President at 
        the request of a State under subsection (a) if the President 
        does not make a declaration under this subsection for the same 
        incident.''.
            (3) Definitions.--Section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford 
        Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122) 
        is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (7)(B) by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting ``, that is not an Indian tribal government 
                as defined in paragraph (6); and'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through (10) as 
                paragraphs (7) through (11), respectively;
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
            ``(6) Indian tribal government.--The term `Indian tribal 
        government' means the governing body of any Indian or Alaska 
        Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that 
        the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an 
        Indian tribe under the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List 
        Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 479a et seq.).''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(12) Chief executive.--The term `Chief Executive' means 
        the person who is the Chief, Chairman, Governor, President, or 
        similar executive official of an Indian tribal government.''.
            (4) References.--Title I of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
        Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) is 
        amended by adding after section 102 the following:

``SEC. 103. REFERENCES.

    ``Except as otherwise specifically provided, any reference in this 
Act to `State and local', `State or local', `State, and local', `State, 
or local', or `State, local' (including the plural form of such terms) 
with respect to governments or officials and any reference to a `local 
government' in sections 406(d)(3) and 417 shall be deemed to refer also 
to Indian tribal governments and officials, as appropriate.''.
            (5) Regulations.--
                    (A) Issuance.--The President shall issue 
                regulations to carry out the amendments made by this 
                subsection.
                    (B) Factors.--In issuing regulations under this 
                paragraph, the President shall consider the unique 
                conditions that affect the general welfare of Indian 
                tribal governments.
    (l) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Chair of the Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Task Force 
established by the President, in consultation with the Administrator of 
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Secretary of the Treasury, 
and others whom the Chair determines to be appropriate, shall submit to 
the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Appropriations and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
of the House of Representatives a report that includes a discussion 
of--
            (1) the impacts of Hurricane Sandy on local government 
        budgets in States where a major disaster has been declared, 
        including revenues from taxes, fees, and other sources, and 
        expenses related to operations, debt obligations, and 
        unreimbursed disaster-related costs;
            (2) the availability of loans from private sources to 
        address such impacts, including information on interest rates, 
        repayment terms, securitization requirements, and the ability 
        of affected local governments to qualify for such loans;
            (3) the availability of Federal resources to address the 
        budgetary impacts of Hurricane Sandy upon local governments;
            (4) the ability of the Community Disaster Loan program 
        authorized under section 417 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
        Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5184) to 
        effectively and expeditiously address budgetary impacts of 
        Hurricane Sandy and other disasters upon local governments, 
        including--
                    (A) an assessment of the current statutory limits 
                on loan amounts;
                    (B) the regulations, policies, and procedures 
                governing program mobilization to communities in need 
                and expeditious processing of loan applications;
                    (C) information on interest rates, repayment terms, 
                securitization requirements, and ability of affected 
                local governments to qualify for such loans;
                    (D) criteria governing the cancellation of such 
                loans, including appropriate classification of 
                available revenues and eligible expenses, and the 
                consistency of program rules with customary local 
                government budgetary practices and State or local laws 
                that affect the specific budgetary practices of local 
                governments affected by Hurricane Sandy and other 
                disasters;
                    (E) repayment terms and timeframes on loans that do 
                not qualify for cancellation;
                    (F) options for Congressional consideration related 
                to legislative modifications of this program, and any 
                other applicable provisions of Federal law, in order to 
                address the budgetary impacts of Hurricane Sandy and 
                other disasters upon local governments; and
                    (G) recommendations on steps the Federal Emergency 
                Management Agency may take in order to improve program 
                administration, effectiveness, communications, and 
                speed; and
            (5) potential consequences of Federal action or inaction to 
        address the budgetary impacts of Hurricane Sandy upon local 
        governments.
    (m) Applicability.--Unless otherwise specified, this section and 
the amendments made by this section shall apply for--
            (1) any major disaster or emergency declared under the 
        Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) on or after the date of enactment of 
        this Act; and
            (2) a major disaster or emergency declared before the date 
        of enactment of this Act for which the period for processing 
        requests for assistance has not ended on the date of enactment 
        of this Act.

                               TITLE VII

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                       Fish and Wildlife Service

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'' for necessary 
expenses incurred to prepare for, respond to, and recover from 
Hurricane Sandy, $78,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         National Park Service

                       historic preservation fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Historic Preservation Fund'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy, 
$50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2015, including 
costs to states necessary to complete compliance activities required by 
section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act and costs needed 
to administer the program:  Provided, That grants shall only be 
available for areas that have received a major disaster declaration 
pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):  Provided further, That 
individual grants shall not be subject to a non-Federal matching 
requirement:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'' for necessary 
expenses incurred to prepare for, respond to, and recover from 
Hurricane Sandy, $348,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement

                           oil spill research

    For an additional amount for ``Oil Spill Research'' for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy, $3,000,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Departmental Operations

                        office of the secretary

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Departmental Operations'' and any 
Department of the Interior component bureau or office for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy and for other 
activities related to storms and natural disasters, $150,000,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds appropriated 
herein shall be used to restore and rebuild parks, refuges, and other 
public assets; increase the resiliency and capacity of coastal habitat 
and infrastructure to withstand future storms and reduce the amount of 
damage caused by such storms; protect natural and cultural values; and 
assist State, tribal and local governments:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may transfer these funds to any other account in the 
Department and may expend such funds by direct expenditure, grants, or 
cooperative agreements, including grants to or cooperative agreements 
with States, Tribes, and municipalities, to carry out the purposes 
provided herein:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate a detailed spending plan for the amounts provided herein 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                 Environmental Programs and Management

    For an additional amount for ``Environmental Programs and 
Management'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricane Sandy, $725,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Hazardous Substance Superfund

    For an additional amount for ``Hazardous Substance Superfund'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy, 
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Leaking Underground Storage Tank Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Leaking Underground Storage Tank 
Fund'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane 
Sandy, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   State and Tribal Assistance Grants

    For an additional amount for ``State and Tribal Assistance 
Grants'', $810,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$700,000,000 shall be for capitalization grants for the Clean Water 
State Revolving Funds under Title VI of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act, and of which $110,000,000 shall be for capitalization 
grants under section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act and section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, 
funds appropriated herein shall be provided to States that have 
received a major disaster declaration pursuant to the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 
et seq.) for Hurricane Sandy:  Provided further, That no eligible state 
shall receive less than two percent of such funds:  Provided further, 
That funds appropriated herein shall not be subject to the matching or 
cost share requirements of sections 602(b)(2), 602(b)(3) or 202 of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act nor the matching requirements of 
section 1452(e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the requirements of section 603(d) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act, for the funds appropriated herein, each State 
shall use not less than 50 percent of the amount of its capitalization 
grants to provide additional subsidization to eligible recipients in 
the form of forgiveness of principal, negative interest loans or grants 
or any combination of these:  Provided further, That the funds 
appropriated herein shall only be used for eligible projects whose 
purpose is to reduce flood damage risk and vulnerability or to enhance 
resiliency to rapid hydrologic change or a natural disaster at 
treatment works as defined by section 212 of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act or any eligible facilities under section 1452 of 
the Safe Drinking Water Act, and for other eligible tasks at such 
treatment works or facilities necessary to further such purposes:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding the definition of treatment 
works in section 212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, and 
subject to the purposes described herein, the funds appropriated herein 
shall be available for the purchase of land and easements necessary for 
the siting of eligible treatment works projects:  Provided further, 
That the Administrator may retain up to $1,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated herein for management and oversight of the requirements of 
this section:  Provided further, That such amounts are designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                  capital improvement and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Capital Improvement and 
Maintenance'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricane Sandy, $4,400,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                          OTHER RELATED AGENCY

                        Smithsonian Institution

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy, 
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                               TITLE VIII

                          DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

                    training and employment services

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Training and Employment Services'', 
$50,000,000, for the dislocated workers assistance national reserve for 
necessary expenses resulting from Hurricane Sandy, which shall be 
available from the date of enactment of this Act through September 30, 
2013:  Provided, That the Secretary of Labor may transfer up to 
$3,500,000 of such funds to any other Department of Labor account for 
other Hurricane Sandy reconstruction and recovery needs, including 
worker protection activities:  Provided further, That such amounts are 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                Administration for Children and Families

                      social services block grant

    For an additional amount for ``Social Services Block Grant'', 
$500,000,000, for necessary expenses resulting from Hurricane Sandy in 
States for which the President declared a major disaster under title IV 
of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 
notwithstanding section 2003 and paragraphs (1) and (4) of section 
2005(a) of the Social Security Act:  Provided, That, notwithstanding 
section 2002 of the Social Security Act, the distribution of such 
amount shall be limited to States directly affected by these events:  
Provided further, That section 2002(c) of the Social Security Act shall 
be applied to funds appropriated in this paragraph by substituting 
succeeding 2 fiscal years for succeeding fiscal year:  Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this paragraph are in addition to 
the entitlement grants authorized by section 2002(a)(1) of the Social 
Security Act and shall not be available for such entitlement grants:  
Provided further, That in addition to other uses permitted by title XX 
of the Social Security Act, funds appropriated in this paragraph may be 
used for health services (including mental health services), and for 
costs of renovating, repairing, or rebuilding health care facilities 
(including mental health facilities), child care facilities, or other 
social services facilities:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
paragraphs (2) and (8) of section 2005(a) of the Social Security Act, a 
State may use up to 10 percent of its allotment of funds appropriated 
in this paragraph to supplement any other funds available for the 
following costs, subject to guidelines established by the Secretary, 
for health care providers (as defined by the Secretary): (a) payments 
to compensate employees of health care providers for wages lost as a 
direct result of Hurricane Sandy, and (b) payments to support the 
viability of health care providers with facilities that were 
substantially damaged as a direct result of Hurricane Sandy:  Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this paragraph are also available 
for costs incurred up to 3 days prior to Hurricane Sandy's October 29, 
2012, landfall, subject to Federal review of documentation of the cost 
of services provided:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for costs that are 
reimbursed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or insurance:  
Provided further, That, with respect to the Federal interest in real 
property acquired or on which construction or major renovation of 
facilities (as such terms are defined in 45 CFR 1309.3) is undertaken 
with these funds, procedures equivalent to those specified in Subpart C 
of 45 CFR Part 1309 shall apply:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 children and family services programs

    For an additional amount for ``Children and Families Services 
Programs'', $100,000,000, for making payments under the Head Start Act 
in States for which the President declared a major disaster under title 
IV of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act as a result of Hurricane Sandy:  Provided, That funds appropriated 
in this paragraph are not subject to the allocation requirements of 
section 640(a) or the matching requirements of section 640(b) of the 
Head Start Act:  Provided further, That funds appropriated in this 
paragraph shall be available through September 30, 2014 for activities 
to assist affected Head Start agencies, including technical assistance, 
costs of Head Start services (including supportive services for 
children and families, and provision of mental health services for 
children affected by Hurricane Sandy), and costs of renovating, 
repairing, or rebuilding those Head Start facilities damaged as a 
result of Hurricane Sandy:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be included in the calculation of 
the ``base grant'' in subsequent fiscal years, as such term is used in 
section 640(a)(7)(A) of the Head Start Act:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for 
costs that are reimbursed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or 
by insurance:  Provided further, That such amounts are designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                        Office of the Secretary

            public health and social services emergency fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund'' for disaster response and recovery, and other expenses 
related to Hurricane Sandy, and for other disaster-response activities, 
$200,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That these 
funds may be transferred by the Secretary to accounts within the 
Department of Health and Human Services, and shall be available only 
for the purposes provided in this paragraph:  Provided further, That 
the transfer authority provided in this paragraph is in addition to any 
other transfer authority available in this or any other Act: Provided 
further,  That obligations incurred for the purposes provided herein 
prior to the enactment of this Act may be charged to this 
appropriation: Provided further, That funds appropriated in this 
paragraph may be used to make grants for renovating, repairing, or 
rebuilding non-Federal research facilities damaged as a result of 
Hurricane Sandy:  Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
paragraph shall not be available for costs that are eligible for 
reimbursement by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or are covered 
by insurance:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                     Social Security Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Limitation on Administrative 
Expenses'', $2,000,000, for necessary expenses resulting from Hurricane 
Sandy:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE IX

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                         MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army National 
Guard'', $24,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 2014, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy:  
Provided, That such funds may be obligated or expended for planning and 
design and military construction projects not otherwise authorized by 
law:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

    For an additional amount for ``Medical Services'', $21,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2014, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                           medical facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Medical Facilities'', $6,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2014, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of Hurricane Sandy:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    national cemetery administration

    For an additional amount for ``National Cemetery Administration'', 
$1,100,000, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricane Sandy:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                      Departmental Administration

                     information technology systems

    For an additional amount for ``Information Technology Systems'', 
$500,000, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricane Sandy:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                      construction, major projects

    For an additional amount for ``Construction, Major Projects'', 
$207,000,000 to remain available until expended, for renovations and 
repairs to the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in 
Manhattan, New York, as a consequence of damage caused by Hurricane 
Sandy:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, such 
funds may be obligated and expended to carry out planning and design 
and major medical facility construction not otherwise authorized by 
law:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                                TITLE X

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                    Federal Aviation Administration

                        facilities and equipment

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For an additional amount for ``Facilities and equipment'', 
$30,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and 
to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses related to 
the consequences of Hurricane Sandy:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                          federal-aid highways

                        emergency relief program

    For an additional amount for the Emergency Relief Program as 
authorized under section 125 of title 23, United States Code, 
$921,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Federal Railroad Administration

         grants to the national railroad passenger corporation

    For an additional amount for the Secretary to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for costs and losses incurred 
as a result of Hurricane Sandy and to advance capital projects that 
address Northeast Corridor infrastructure recovery, mitigation and 
resiliency in the affected areas, $336,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That the Administrator of the Federal 
Railroad Administration may retain up to one-half of 1 percent of the 
funds provided under this heading to fund the award and oversight by 
the Administrator of grants made under this heading:  Provided further, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Federal Transit Administration

             public transportation emergency relief program

    For the Public Transportation Emergency Relief Program as 
authorized under section 5324 of title 49, United States Code, 
$10,783,000,000, to remain available until expended, for recovery and 
relief efforts in the areas most affected by Hurricane Sandy:  
Provided, That, of the funds provided under this heading, the Secretary 
may transfer up to $5,383,000,000 to the appropriate agencies to fund 
programs authorized under titles 23 and 49, United States Code, in 
order to carry out mitigation projects related to reducing risk of 
damage from future disasters in areas impacted by Hurricane Sandy:  
Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives shall be notified at least 15 days in 
advance of any such transfer:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Federal share for all projects funded 
under this heading for repairs, reconstruction or mitigation of 
transportation infrastructure in areas impacted by Hurricane Sandy 
shall be 90 percent:  Provided further, That up to three-quarters of 1 
percent of the funds retained for public transportation emergency 
relief shall be available for the purposes of administrative expenses 
and ongoing program management oversight as authorized under 49 U.S.C. 
5334 and 5338(i)(2) and shall be in addition to any other 
appropriations for such purposes:  Provided further, That, of the funds 
made available under this heading, $6,000,000 shall be transferred to 
the Office of Inspector General to support the oversight of activities 
funded under this heading:  Provided further, That such amounts are 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                       community development fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Community Development Fund'' for 
necessary expenses related to disaster relief, long-term recovery, 
restoration of infrastructure and housing, economic revitalization, and 
mitigation in the most impacted and distressed areas resulting from a 
major disaster declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), due to 
Hurricane Sandy, for activities authorized under title I of the Housing 
and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), 
$17,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which at least 
$2,000,000,000 shall be used for mitigation projects to reduce future 
risk and vulnerabilities:  Provided, That the Secretary shall establish 
a minimum allocation for each eligible State declared a major disaster 
due to Hurricane Sandy:  Provided further, That of the amount provided 
under this heading, $500,000,000 shall be used to address the unmet 
needs of impacted areas resulting from a major disaster declared 
pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 
et seq.) or for small, economically distressed areas with a disaster 
declared in 2011 or 2012:  Provided further, That funds shall be 
awarded directly to the State or unit of general local government as a 
grantee at the discretion of the Secretary:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall allocate to grantees not less than 33 percent of the 
funds provided under this heading within 60 days after the enactment of 
this Act based on the best available data:  Provided further, That 
prior to the obligation of funds, a grantee shall submit a plan to the 
Secretary for approval detailing the proposed use of all funds, 
including criteria for eligibility and how the use of these funds will 
address long-term recovery and restoration of infrastructure and 
housing and economic revitalization in the most impacted and distressed 
areas:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall by notice specify 
the criteria for approval of such plans within 45 days of enactment of 
this Act:  Provided further, That such funds may not be used for 
activities reimbursable by, or for which funds are made available by, 
the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the Army Corps of Engineers: 
 Provided further, That the final paragraph under the heading Community 
Development Block Grants in title II of Public Law 105-276 (42 U.S.C. 
5305 note) shall not apply to funds provided under this heading:  
Provided further, That funds allocated under this heading shall not be 
considered relevant to the non-disaster formula allocations made 
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5306:  Provided further, That a grantee may use 
up to 5 percent of its allocation for administrative costs:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall require that grantees have 
established procedures to ensure timely expenditure of funds and 
prevent any duplication of benefits as defined by 42 U.S.C. 5155 and 
prevent fraud and abuse of funds:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall provide grantees with technical assistance on contracting and 
procurement processes and shall require grantees, in contracting or 
procuring for management and administration of these funds, to 
incorporate performance requirements and penalties into any such 
contracts or agreements and to maintain information with respect to 
performance on the use of any funds for management and administrative 
purposes:  Provided further, That in administering the funds under this 
heading, the Secretary may waive, or specify alternative requirements 
for, any provision of any statute or regulation that the Secretary 
administers in connection with the obligation by the Secretary or the 
use by the recipient of these funds (except for requirements related to 
fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), 
pursuant to a determination by the Secretary that good cause exists for 
the waiver or alternative requirement and that such action is not 
inconsistent with the overall purposes of title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.):  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding the previous proviso, recipients of funds 
provided under this heading that use such funds to match or supplement 
Federal assistance provided under sections 402, 403, 406, 407, or 502 
of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may adopt, without review or public comment, 
any environmental review, approval, or permit performed by a Federal 
agency, and such adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of the 
recipient with respect to such environmental review, approval, or 
permit:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2), 
the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request for release of funds and 
certification, immediately approve the release of funds for an activity 
or project assisted under this heading if the recipient has adopted an 
environmental review prepared under the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) or the project is categorically 
excluded from further review under the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.):  Provided further, That a waiver 
granted by the Secretary may not reduce the percentage of funds which 
must be used for activities that benefit persons of low and moderate 
income to less than 50 percent, unless the Secretary specifically finds 
that there is a compelling need to further reduce or eliminate the 
percentage requirement:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
publish in the Federal Register any waiver of any statute or regulation 
that the Secretary administers pursuant to title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days before the 
effective date of such waiver:  Provided further, That funds provided 
under this heading to for-profit enterprises may only assist such 
enterprises that meet the definition of small business as defined by 
the Small Business Administration under 13 CFR part 121:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding the previous proviso, funds may be 
provided to a for-profit enterprise, that does not meet such definition 
of small business, but which provides a public benefit, is publicly 
regulated, and is otherwise eligible for assistance under 42 U.S.C. 
5301 et seq., and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR Part 
570.201(l):  Provided further, That of the funds made available under 
this heading, up to $10,000,000 may be transferred to ``Program Office 
Salaries and Expenses, Community Planning and Development'' for 
technical assistance and administrative costs (including information 
technology costs), related solely to administering funds available 
under this heading or funds made available under prior appropriations 
to the ``Community Development Fund'' for disaster relief, long-term 
recovery, or emergency expenses:  Provided further, That, of the funds 
made available under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be transferred to 
``Office of Inspector General'':  Provided further, That the amounts 
provided under this heading are designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 1001.  For fiscal year 2013, upon request by a public housing 
agency and supported by documentation as required by the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development that demonstrates that the need for the 
adjustment is due to the disaster, the Secretary may make temporary 
adjustments to the Section 8 housing choice voucher annual renewal 
funding allocations and administrative fee eligibility determinations 
for public housing agencies in an area for which the President declared 
a disaster under title IV of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 et seq.), to avoid significant 
adverse funding impacts that would otherwise result from the disaster.
    Sec. 1002.  The Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban 
Development shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate within 45 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act a plan for implementing the provisions in 
this title, and updates to such plan on a biannual basis thereafter.
    Sec. 1003.  None of the funds provided in this title to the 
Department of Transportation or the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development may be used to make a grant unless the Secretary of such 
Department notifies the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
and posts the notification on the public website of that agency not 
less than 3 full business days before either Department (or a modal 
administration of either Department) announces the selection of any 
project, State or locality to receive a grant award totaling $500,000 
or more.

                                TITLE XI

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 1101.  Each amount appropriated or made available in this Act 
is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year 
involved.
    Sec. 1102.  Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be 
available only if the President subsequently so designates all such 
amounts and transmits such designations to the Congress.
    Sec. 1103. (a) Not later than March 31, 2013, in accordance with 
criteria to be established by the Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB), Federal agencies shall submit to OMB and to the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and of the Senate 
internal control plans for funds provided by this Act.
    (b) All programs and activities receiving funds under this Act 
shall be deemed to be ``susceptible to significant improper payments'' 
for purposes of the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002 (31 
U.S.C. 3321 note) (IPIA), notwithstanding section 2(a) of IPIA.
    (c) In accordance with guidance to be issued by the Director of 
OMB, agencies shall identify those grants for which the funds provided 
by this Act should be expended by the grantees within the 24-month 
period following the agency's obligation of funds for the grant. In the 
case of such grants, the agency shall include a term in the grant that:
            (1) requires the grantee to return to the agency any funds 
        not expended within the 24-month period; and
            (2) provides that the head of the agency may, after 
        consultation with the Director of OMB, subsequently issue a 
        waiver of this requirement based on a determination by the head 
        of the agency that exceptional circumstances exist that justify 
        an extension of the period in which the funds must be expended.
    Sec. 1104. (a) In carrying out activities funded by this Act, 
Federal agencies, in partnership with States, local communities and 
tribes, shall inform plans for response, recovery, and rebuilding to 
reduce vulnerabilities from and build long-term resiliency to future 
extreme weather events, sea level rise, and coastal flooding. In 
carrying out activities funded by this title that involve repairing, 
rebuilding, or restoring infrastructure and restoring land, project 
sponsors shall consider, where appropriate, the increased risks and 
vulnerabilities associated with future extreme weather events, sea 
level rise and coastal flooding.
    (b) Funds made available in this Act shall be available to develop, 
in partnership with State, local and tribal officials, regional 
projections and assessments of future risks and vulnerabilities to 
extreme weather events, sea level rise and coastal flooding that may be 
used for the planning referred to in subsection (a), and to encourage 
coordination and facilitate long-term community resiliency.
    Sec. 1105.  Recipients of Federal funds dedicated to reconstruction 
efforts under this Act shall, to the greatest extent practicable, 
ensure that such reconstruction efforts maximize the utilization of 
technologies designed to mitigate future power outages, continue 
delivery of vital services and maintain the flow of power to facilities 
critical to public health, safety and welfare. The Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development as chair of the Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Task 
Force shall issue appropriate guidelines to implement this requirement.

              vehicles use in the wake of hurricane sandy

    Sec. 1106.  (a) Report.--Not later than 7 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Department of Justice and Department of 
Homeland Security shall identify and relocate any vehicles currently 
based at the Washington, D.C., headquarters of such agencies used for 
non-operational purposes to replace vehicles of those agencies damaged 
by Hurricane Sandy. The Department of Justice and Department of 
Homeland Security shall provide copies of a report summarizing the 
actions taken to carry out this subsection to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations and Judiciary.
    (b) Funding Limitation.--No funds provided by this Act shall be 
used to purchase, repair, or replace any Department of Justice or 
Department of Homeland security vehicle until after the report required 
by subsection (a) has been provided to Congress.

                       increased embassy security

    Sec. 1107. Funds appropriated under the heading ``Administration of 
Foreign Affairs'' under Title VIII of Division I of Public Law 112-74 
and as carried forward under Public Law 112-175, may be transferred to, 
and merged with, any such other funds appropriated under such title and 
heading:  Provided, That such transfers shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

prohibition on emergency spending for persons having serious delinquent 
                               tax debts

    Sec. 1108.  (a) Definition of Seriously Delinquent Tax Debt.--In 
this section:
            (1) In general.--The term ``seriously delinquent tax debt'' 
        means an outstanding debt under the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986 for which a notice of lien has been filed in public 
        records pursuant to section 6323 of that Code.
            (2) Exclusions.--The term ``seriously delinquent tax debt'' 
        does not include--
                    (A) a debt that is being paid in a timely manner 
                pursuant to an agreement under section 6159 or 7122 of 
                Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
                    (B) a debt with respect to which a collection due 
                process hearing under section 6330 of that Code, or 
                relief under subsection (a), (b), or (f) of section 
                6015 of that Code, is requested or pending.
    (b) Prohibition.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act 
or an amendment made by this Act, none of the amounts appropriated by 
or otherwise made available under this Act may be used to make payments 
to an individual or entity who has a seriously delinquent tax debt 
during the pendency of such seriously delinquent tax debt.

       prohibition on emergency spending for deceased individuals

    Sec. 1109. None of the amounts appropriated by or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used for any person who is not alive 
when the amounts are made available. This does not apply to funeral 
costs.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, 
2013''.

            Amend the title so as to read: ``An Act making 
        appropriations for disaster relief for the fiscal year ending 
        September 30, 2013, and for other purposes.''.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
112th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                 H.R. 1

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENTS
