
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 477 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 477

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     November 30, 2011.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3463) to reduce Federal spending and the 
deficit by terminating taxpayer financing of presidential election campaigns and 
party conventions and by terminating the Election Assistance Commission. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and any 
amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on House Administration; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 527) to amend chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code (commonly 
known as the Regulatory Flexibility Act), to ensure complete analysis of 
potential impacts on small entities of rules, and for other purposes. The first 
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the 
bill and shall not exceed one hour, with 40 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Judiciary and 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Small Business. After general debate the 
bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of 
the amendments in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committees on 
the Judiciary and Small Business now printed in the bill, it shall be in order 
to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-
minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of 
the Rules Committee Print dated November 18, 2011. That amendment in the nature 
of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed 
in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. 
Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may 
be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as 
read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 
amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for 
amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such 
amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in 
the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or 
to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3010) to reform the process by which Federal agencies analyze and 
formulate new regulations and guidance documents. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on the Judiciary. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
the Judiciary now printed in the bill. The committee amendment in the nature of 
a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against the 
committee amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to 
the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except 
those printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying 
this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in 
the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be 
considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report 
equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be 
subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order 
against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the 
bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House 
with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate 
vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the 
bill or to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 4.  It shall be in order at any time through the legislative day of 
December 2, 2011, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend 
the rules, as though under clause 1(c) of rule XV, relating to a measure 
addressing railway labor.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
