
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1021 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                        April 19, 2012.
    Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representatives (H.R. 
1021) entitled ``An Act to prevent the termination of the temporary 
office of bankruptcy judges in certain judicial districts.'', do pass 
with the following

                               AMENDMENT:

            Strike section 3 and insert the following:

SEC. 3. BANKRUPTCY FILING FEE INCREASE.

    (a) Bankruptcy Filing Fees.--Section 1930(a)(3) of title 28, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``$1,000'' and inserting 
``$1,167''.
    (b) United States Trustee System Fund.--Section 589a(b)(2) of title 
28, United States Code, is amended by striking ``55'' and inserting 
``48.89''.
    (c) Collection and Deposit of Miscellaneous Bankruptcy Fees.--
Section 406(b) of the Judiciary Appropriations Act, 1990 (28 U.S.C. 
1931 note) is amended by striking ``25'' and inserting ``33.33''.
    (d) Paygo Offset Expenditure Limitation.--$42 of the incremental 
amounts collected by reason of the enactment of subsection (a) shall be 
deposited in a special fund in the Treasury to be established after the 
date of enactment of this Act. Such amounts shall be available for the 
purposes specified in section 1931(a) of title 28, United States Code, 
but only to the extent specifically appropriated by an Act of Congress 
enacted after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall take effect 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 4. SUBSEQUENT REAUTHORIZATION.

    Prior to further reauthorization of any judgeship authorized by 
this Act, the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and House of 
Representatives shall conduct a review of the bankruptcy judgeships 
authorized by this Act to determine the need, if any, for continued 
reauthorization of each judgeship, to evaluate any changes in all 
bankruptcy case filings and their effect, if any, on filing fee 
revenue, and to require the Administrative Office of the Courts to 
submit a report to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and 
House of Representatives on bankruptcy case workload, bankruptcy 
judgeship costs, and filing fee revenue.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
112th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H.R. 1021

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENT
