
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 425 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 425

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      October 11, 2011.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take 
from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 2832) to extend the Generalized System 
of Preferences, and for other purposes, with the Senate amendment thereto, and 
to consider in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a motion 
offered by the chair of the Committee on Ways and Means or his designee that the 
House concur in the Senate amendment. The Senate amendment shall be considered 
as read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its 
adoption without intervening motion.
    Sec. 2.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3078) to implement the United States-
Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. The bill shall be debatable for 90 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Ways and Means. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill to final passage without intervening motion except one 
motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3079) to implement the United States-Panama 
Trade Promotion Agreement. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill are waived. The bill shall be debatable for 90 minutes, 
with 30 minutes controlled by Representative Camp of Michigan or his designee, 
30 minutes controlled by Representative Levin of Michigan or his designee, and 
30 minutes controlled by Representative Michaud of Maine or his designee. 
Pursuant to section 151 of the Trade Act of 1974, the previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill to final passage without intervening motion.
    Sec. 4.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3080) to implement the United States-Korea 
Free Trade Agreement. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill are waived. The bill shall be debatable for 90 minutes, 
with 30 minutes controlled by Representative Camp of Michigan or his designee, 
30 minutes controlled by Representative Levin of Michigan or his designee, and 
30 minutes controlled by Representative Michaud of Maine or his designee. 
Pursuant to section 151 of the Trade Act of 1974, the previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill to final passage without intervening motion.
    Sec. 5.  House Resolution 418 is laid on the table.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
