
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 724 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 724

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 10, 2012.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 6079) to repeal the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act and health care-related provisions in the Health Care and 
Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) five hours of debate, with 30 minutes 
equally divided and controlled by the Majority Leader and Minority Leader or 
their respective designees, 60 minutes equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and the 
Workforce, 60 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 60 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Ways and Means, 30 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on the Budget, 30 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on the Judiciary, and 30 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Small Business; and (2) one motion 
to recommit.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
