
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 257 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 257

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 11, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1231) to amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to require that 
each 5-year offshore oil and gas leasing program offer leasing in the areas with 
the most prospective oil and gas resources, to establish a domestic oil and 
natural gas production goal, and for other purposes. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Natural Resources. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The amendment 
recommended by the Committee on Natural Resources now printed in the bill shall 
be considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. The 
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No further amendment to the 
bill, as amended, shall be in order except those printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each further amendment may be 
offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 
the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are waived. At the 
conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise 
and report the bill, as amended, to the House with such further amendments as 
may have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
