
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 316 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 316

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 22, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 2021) to amend the Clean Air Act regarding air pollution from Outer 
Continental Shelf activities. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed 
with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General 
debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. No amendment to the 
bill shall be in order except those printed in part A of the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be 
offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 
the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion 
of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report 
the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1249) to amend title 35, United States Code, to provide for patent 
reform. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. An initial period of general 
debate shall be confined to the question of the constitutionality of the bill 
and shall not exceed 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by Representative 
Smith of Texas and Representative Kaptur of Ohio or their respective designees. 
A subsequent period of general debate shall be confined to the bill and shall 
not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in 
order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the 
five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on the Judiciary now printed in the bill. The committee amendment in 
the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No 
amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in 
order except those printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the 
order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the 
report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified 
in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for 
division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All 
points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may 
demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of 
the Whole to the bill or to the committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Upon receipt of a message from the Senate transmitting H.R. 1249 
with a Senate amendment or amendments thereto, it shall be in order to consider 
in the House without intervention of any point of order a single motion offered 
by the chair of the Committee on the Judiciary or his designee that the House 
disagree to the Senate amendment or amendments and request or agree to a 
conference with the Senate thereon. The motion shall be debatable for one hour 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on the Judiciary. The previous question shall be considered as ordered 
on the motion to its adoption without intervening motion or demand for division 
of the question.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
