
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 841 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 841

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     December 20, 2012.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take 
from the Speaker's table the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 66) approving the 
renewal of import restrictions contained in the Burmese Freedom and Democracy 
Act of 2003, with the Senate amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, 
without intervention of any point of order, a motion offered by the chair of the 
Committee on Ways and Means or his designee that the House concur in the Senate 
amendment with the amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. The Senate amendment and the motion shall be 
considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided 
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways 
and Means. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to 
its adoption without intervening motion.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 6684) to provide for spending reduction. All points 
of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 
one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the Majority Leader and 
Minority Leader or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
