
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 189 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 189

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        March 31, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 658) to amend title 49, United States Code, to authorize 
appropriations for the Federal Aviation Administration for fiscal years 2011 
through 2014, to streamline programs, create efficiencies, reduce waste, and 
improve aviation safety and capacity, to provide stable funding for the national 
aviation system, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and amendments specified in 
this resolution and shall not exceed one hour, with 40 minutes equally divided 
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure, 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Science, Space, and 
Technology, and 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means. After general debate 
the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu 
of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure now printed in the bill, it shall be in order 
to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-
minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of 
the Rules Committee Print dated March 22, 2011. That amendment in the nature of 
a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed 
in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall 
rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment 
adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the 
nature of a substitute made in order as original text. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final 
passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
