
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 6079 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 451
112th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6079


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 12, 2012

                     Received; read the first time

                             July 16, 2012

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and health 
care-related provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation 
                              Act of 2010.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Repeal of Obamacare Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following with respect to the impact of Public 
Law 111-148 and related provisions of Public Law 111-152 (collectively 
referred to in this section as ``the law''):
            (1) President Obama promised the American people that if 
        they liked their current health coverage, they could keep it. 
        But even the Obama Administration admits that tens of millions 
        of Americans are at risk of losing their health care coverage, 
        including as many as 8 in 10 plans offered by small businesses.
            (2) Despite projected spending of more than two trillion 
        dollars over the next 10 years, cutting Medicare by more than 
        one-half trillion dollars over that period, and increasing 
        taxes by over $800 billion dollars over that period, the law 
        does not lower health care costs. In fact, the law actually 
        makes coverage more expensive for millions of Americans. The 
        average American family already paid a premium increase of 
        approximately $1,200 in the year following passage of the law. 
        The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) predicts that health 
        insurance premiums for individuals buying private health 
        coverage on their own will increase by $2,100 in 2016 compared 
        to what the premiums would have been in 2016 if the law had not 
        passed.
            (3) The law cuts more than one-half trillion dollars in 
        Medicare and uses the funds to create a new entitlement program 
        rather than to protect and strengthen the Medicare program. 
        Actuaries at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) 
        warn that the Medicare cuts contained in the law are so drastic 
        that ``providers might end their participation in the program 
        (possibly jeopardizing access to care for beneficiaries)''. CBO 
        cautioned that the Medicare cuts ``might be difficult to 
        sustain over a long period of time''. According to the CMS 
        actuaries, 7.4 million Medicare beneficiaries who would have 
        been enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan in 2017 will lose 
        access to their plan because the law cuts $206 billion in 
        payments to Medicare Advantage plans. The Trustees of the 
        Medicare Trust Funds predict that the law will result in a 
        substantial decline in employer-sponsored retiree drug 
        coverage, and 90 percent of seniors will no longer have access 
        to retiree drug coverage by 2016 as a result of the law.
            (4) The law creates a 15-member, unelected Independent 
        Payment Advisory Board that is empowered to make binding 
        decisions regarding what treatments Medicare will cover and how 
        much Medicare will pay for treatments solely to cut spending, 
        restricting access to health care for seniors.
            (5) The law and the more than 13,000 pages of related 
        regulations issued before July 11, 2012, are causing great 
        uncertainty, slowing economic growth, and limiting hiring 
        opportunities for the approximately 13 million Americans 
        searching for work. Imposing higher costs on businesses will 
        lead to lower wages, fewer workers, or both.
            (6) The law imposes 21 new or higher taxes on American 
        families and businesses, including 12 taxes on families making 
        less than $250,000 a year.
            (7) While President Obama promised that nothing in the law 
        would fund elective abortion, the law expands the role of the 
        Federal Government in funding and facilitating abortion and 
        plans that cover abortion. The law appropriates billions of 
        dollars in new funding without explicitly prohibiting the use 
        of these funds for abortion, and it provides Federal subsidies 
        for health plans covering elective abortions. Moreover, the law 
        effectively forces millions of individuals to personally pay a 
        separate abortion premium in violation of their sincerely held 
        religious, ethical, or moral beliefs.
            (8) Until enactment of the law, the Federal Government has 
        not sought to impose specific coverage or care requirements 
        that infringe on the rights of conscience of insurers, 
        purchasers of insurance, plan sponsors, beneficiaries, and 
        other stakeholders, such as individual or institutional health 
        care providers. The law creates a new nationwide requirement 
        for health plans to cover ``essential health benefits'' and 
        ``preventive services'', but does not allow stakeholders to opt 
        out of covering items or services to which they have a 
        religious or moral objection, in violation of the Religious 
        Freedom Restoration Act (Public Law 103-141). By creating new 
        barriers to health insurance and causing the loss of existing 
        insurance arrangements, these inflexible mandates jeopardize 
        the ability of institutions and individuals to exercise their 
        rights of conscience and their ability to freely participate in 
        the health insurance and health care marketplace.
            (9) The law expands Government control over health care, 
        adds trillions of dollars to existing liabilities, drives costs 
        up even further, and too often puts Federal bureaucrats, 
        instead of doctors and patients, in charge of health care 
        decisionmaking.
            (10) The path to patient-centered care and lower costs for 
        all Americans must begin with a full repeal of the law.

SEC. 3. REPEAL OF OBAMACARE.

    (a) PPACA.--Effective as of the enactment of Public Law 111-148, 
such Act (other than subsection (d) of section 1899A of the Social 
Security Act, as added and amended by sections 3403 and 10320 of such 
Public Law) is repealed, and the provisions of law amended or repealed 
by such Act (other than such subsection (d)) are restored or revived as 
if such Act had not been enacted.
    (b) Health Care-Related Provisions in the Health Care and Education 
Reconciliation Act of 2010.--Effective as of the enactment of the 
Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-
152), title I and subtitle B of title II of such Act are repealed, and 
the provisions of law amended or repealed by such title or subtitle, 
respectively, are restored or revived as if such title and subtitle had 
not been enacted.

SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
Representatives, as long as such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage of this Act.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 11, 2012.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
                                                       Calendar No. 451

112th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 6079

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and health 
care-related provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation 
                              Act of 2010.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 16, 2012

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
