
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2021 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                        Calendar No. 86
112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2021


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 23, 2011

                     Received; read the first time

                             June 27, 2011

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
     To amend the Clean Air Act regarding air pollution from Outer 
                     Continental Shelf activities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Jobs and Energy Permitting Act of 
2011''.

SEC. 2. AIR QUALITY MEASUREMENT.

    Section 328(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7627(a)(1)) is 
amended by inserting before the period at the end of the second 
sentence the following: ``, except that any air quality impact of any 
OCS source shall be measured or modeled, as appropriate, and determined 
solely with respect to the impacts in the corresponding onshore area''.

SEC. 3. OCS SOURCE.

    Section 328(a)(4)(C) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7627(a)(4)(C)) 
is amended in the matter following clause (iii) by striking ``shall be 
considered direct emissions from the OCS source'' and inserting ``shall 
be considered direct emissions from the OCS source but shall not be 
subject to any emission control requirement applicable to the source 
under subpart 1 of part C of title I of this Act. For platform or drill 
ship exploration, an OCS source is established at the point in time 
when drilling commences at a location and ceases to exist when drilling 
activity ends at such location or is temporarily interrupted because 
the platform or drill ship relocates for weather or other reasons.''.

SEC. 4. PERMITS.

    (a) Permits.--Section 328 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7627) is 
amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
    ``(d) Permit Application.--In the case of a completed application 
for a permit under this Act for platform or drill ship exploration for 
an OCS source--
            ``(1) final agency action (including any reconsideration of 
        the issuance or denial of such permit) shall be taken not later 
        than 6 months after the date of filing such completed 
        application;
            ``(2) the Environmental Appeals Board of the Environmental 
        Protection Agency shall have no authority to consider any 
        matter regarding the consideration, issuance, or denial of such 
        permit;
            ``(3) no administrative stay of the effectiveness of such 
        permit may extend beyond the date that is 6 months after the 
        date of filing such completed application;
            ``(4) such final agency action shall be considered to be 
        nationally applicable under section 307(b); and
            ``(5) judicial review of such final agency action shall be 
        available only in accordance with such section 307(b) without 
        additional administrative review or adjudication.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 328(a)(4) of the Clean Air Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7627(a)(4)) is amended by striking ``For purposes of 
subsections (a) and (b)'' and inserting ``For purposes of subsections 
(a), (b), and (d)''.

            Passed the House of Representatives June 22, 2011.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
                                                        Calendar No. 86

112th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 2021

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

     To amend the Clean Air Act regarding air pollution from Outer 
                     Continental Shelf activities.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 27, 2011

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
