
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 822 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 822


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 17, 2011

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To amend title 18, United States Code, to provide a national standard 
 in accordance with which nonresidents of a State may carry concealed 
                         firearms in the State.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Right-to-Carry Reciprocity 
Act of 2011''.

SEC. 2. RECIPROCITY FOR THE CARRYING OF CERTAIN CONCEALED FIREARMS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 926C the following:
``Sec. 926D. Reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms
    ``(a) Notwithstanding any provision of the law of any State or 
political subdivision thereof (except as provided in subsection (b)), a 
person who is not prohibited by Federal law from possessing, 
transporting, shipping, or receiving a firearm, and who is carrying a 
valid identification document containing a photograph of the person, 
and a valid license or permit which is issued pursuant to the law of a 
State and which permits the person to carry a concealed firearm, may 
possess or carry a concealed handgun (other than a machinegun or 
destructive device) that has been shipped or transported in interstate 
or foreign commerce, in any State, other than the State of residence of 
the person, that--
            ``(1) has a statute that allows residents of the State to 
        obtain licenses or permits to carry concealed firearms; or
            ``(2) does not prohibit the carrying of concealed firearms 
        by residents of the State for lawful purposes.
    ``(b) The possession or carrying of a concealed handgun in a State 
under this section shall be subject to the same conditions and 
limitations, except as to eligibility to possess or carry, imposed by 
or under Federal or State law or the law of a political subdivision of 
a State, that apply to the possession or carrying of a concealed 
handgun by residents of the State or political subdivision who are 
licensed by the State or political subdivision to do so, or not 
prohibited by the State from doing so.
    ``(c) In subsection (a), the term `identification document' means a 
document made or issued by or under the authority of the United States 
Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State which, when 
completed with information concerning a particular individual, is of a 
type intended or commonly accepted for the purpose of identification of 
individuals.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for such chapter is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 926C the 
following:

``926D. Reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 3. GAO AUDIT OF THE STATES' CONCEALED CARRY PERMIT OR LICENSING 
              REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-RESIDENTS.

    (a) The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct an 
audit of--
            (1) the laws and regulations of each State that authorize 
        the issuance of a valid permit or license to permit a person, 
        other than a resident of such State, to possess or carry a 
        concealed firearm, including a description of the permitting or 
        licensing requirements of each State that issues concealed 
        carry permits or licenses to persons other than a resident of 
        such State;
            (2) the number of such valid permits or licenses issued or 
        denied (and the basis for such denials) by each State to 
        persons other than a resident of such State; and
            (3) the effectiveness of such State laws and regulations in 
        protecting the public safety.
    (b) Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report on the 
findings of the study conducted under subsection (a).

SEC. 4. GAO STUDY OF THE ABILITY OF STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TO 
              VERIFY THE VALIDITY OF OUT-OF-STATE CONCEALED FIREARMS 
              PERMITS.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study of the ability of State and local law enforcement 
authorities to verify the validity of licenses or permits, issued by 
other States, to carry a concealed firearm.
    (b) Report to the Congress.--Within 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate a written report which 
contains the results of the study required by subsection (a).

            Passed the House of Representatives November 16, 2011.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
