
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 26 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 26

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                       January 7, 2011.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2) to repeal the job-killing health care 
law and health care-related provisions in the Health Care and Education 
Reconciliation Act of 2010. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. The amendment printed in part A of the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions 
in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill, as amended, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) seven hours of debate, with 30 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the Majority Leader and Minority Leader or their respective 
designees, 90 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 90 minutes 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce, 90 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means, 40 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on the Budget, 40 minutes equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary, and 40 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Small Business; and (2) one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without 
intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. 
Res. 9) instructing certain committees to report legislation replacing the job-
killing health care law. The resolution shall be considered as read. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution and any 
amendment thereto to final adoption without intervening motion or demand for 
division of the question except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Rules or 
their respective designees; (2) the amendment printed in part B of the report of 
the Committee on Rules, if offered by Representative Matheson of Utah or his 
designee, which shall be in order without intervention of any point of order, 
shall be considered as read, and shall be separately debatable for 10 minutes 
equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent; and (3) one 
motion to recommit which may not contain instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without 
intervention of any point of order to consider in the House a resolution, if 
offered by the Majority Leader or his designee, relating to the status of 
certain actions taken by Members-elect. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the resolution to final adoption without intervening 
motion or demand for division of the question except four minutes of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the Majority Leader and Minority Leader or 
their respective designees.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
