
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 170 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 170

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        March 16, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 839) to amend the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 to 
terminate the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury to provide new 
assistance under the Home Affordable Modification Program, while preserving 
assistance to homeowners who were already extended an offer to participate in 
the Program, either on a trial or permanent basis. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Financial Services. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Financial Services now printed in the bill. The committee amendment in the 
nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment 
to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order 
except those printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the 
order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the 
report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified 
in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for 
division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All 
points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may 
demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of 
the Whole to the bill or to the committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 861) to rescind the third round of funding for the Neighborhood 
Stabilization Program and to terminate the program. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Financial Services. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in 
order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the 
five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on Financial Services now printed in the bill. The committee amendment 
in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No 
amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in 
order except those printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the 
order printed in the report (except that amendment number 9 and amendment 10 may 
be offered only en bloc), may be offered only by a Member designated in the 
report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified 
in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for 
division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All 
points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may 
demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of 
the Whole to the bill or to the committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
