
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 502 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 502

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     December 20, 2011.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order, 
without intervention of any point of order or question of consideration, to take 
from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 3630) to provide incentives for the 
creation of jobs, and for other purposes, with the Senate amendments thereto, 
and to consider in the House a motion offered by the chair of the Committee on 
Ways and Means or his designee that the House disagree to the Senate amendments 
and request a conference with the Senate thereon. The Senate amendments and the 
motion shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening motion except one hour 
of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Ways and Means.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order, without 
intervention of any point of order or question of consideration, to consider in 
the House the resolution (H. Res. 501) expressing the sense of the House of 
Representatives regarding any final measure to extend the payroll tax holiday, 
extend Federally funded unemployment insurance benefits, or prevent decreases in 
reimbursement for physicians who provide care to Medicare beneficiaries. The 
resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions 
in the resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the resolution and preamble to adoption without intervening motion or 
demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally divided 
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways 
and Means.
    Sec. 3.  During consideration of a motion to instruct conferees pending 
their appointment to a conference on H.R. 3630, the previous question shall be 
considered as ordered to its adoption without intervening motion except one hour 
of debate under clause 7(b) of rule XXII. Such motion shall be considered as 
read and shall not be subject to any question of consideration.
    Sec. 4.  During consideration of a motion specified in the first section of 
this resolution or section 3 of this resolution, the chair may--
    (a) notwithstanding the operation of the previous question, postpone further 
consideration of the motion to such time as may be designated by the Speaker as 
though under clause 1(c) of rule XIX; and
    (b) postpone the question of adoption of the motion as though under clause 8 
of rule XX.
    Sec. 5.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of January 17, 2012.
    Sec. 6.  It shall be in order at any time through the calendar day of 
January 15, 2012, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend 
the rules as though under clause 1(c) of rule XV.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
