
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 717 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 717

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 29, 2012.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5856) making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2013, and for other purposes. The first reading 
of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall 
not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. After general debate the 
bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. Points of 
order against provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule 
XXI are waived except for section 8121. During consideration of the bill for 
amendment, the chair of the Committee of the Whole may accord priority in 
recognition on the basis of whether the Member offering an amendment has caused 
it to be printed in the portion of the Congressional Record designated for that 
purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so printed shall be considered as 
read. When the committee rises and reports the bill back to the House with a 
recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 6020) making appropriations for financial services and general 
government for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2013, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment 
under the five-minute rule. Points of order against provisions in the bill for 
failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are waived except as follows: 
beginning with ``: Provided'' on page 95, line 9, through ``level'' on page 95, 
line 11. Where points of order are waived against part of a paragraph, points of 
order against a provision in another part of such paragraph may be made only 
against such provision and not against the entire paragraph. During 
consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair of the Committee of the Whole 
may accord priority in recognition on the basis of whether the Member offering 
an amendment has caused it to be printed in the portion of the Congressional 
Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so 
printed shall be considered as read. When the committee rises and reports the 
bill back to the House with a recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
the conference report to accompany the bill (H.R. 4348) to provide an extension 
of Federal-aid highway, highway safety, motor carrier safety, transit, and other 
programs funded out of the Highway Trust Fund pending enactment of a multiyear 
law reauthorizing such programs, and for other purposes. All points of order 
against the conference report and against its consideration are waived. The 
conference report shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the conference report to its adoption without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate; and (2) one motion to 
recommit if applicable.
    Sec. 4.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of June 29, 
2012, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules, as 
though under clause 1(c) of rule XV, relating to the following: (a) measures 
addressing expiring provisions of law; and (b) a concurrent resolution 
correcting the enrollment of H.R. 4348.
    Sec. 5.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported on the 
legislative day of June 29, 2012, providing for consideration or disposition of 
the following: (a) measures addressing expiring provisions of law; and (b) a 
concurrent resolution correcting the enrollment of H.R. 4348.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
