
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 269 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 269

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 24, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1216) to amend the Public Health Service Act to convert funding for 
graduate medical education in qualified teaching health centers from direct 
appropriations to an authorization of appropriations. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in order except those received for 
printing in the portion of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose 
in clause 8 of rule XVIII in a daily issue dated May 23, 2011, and except pro 
forma amendments for the purpose of debate. Each amendment so received may be 
offered only by the Member who caused it to be printed or a designee and shall 
be considered as read if printed. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill 
for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with 
such amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1540) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2012 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense and for military construction, to 
prescribe military personnel strengths for fiscal year 2012, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 
Services. After general debate, the Committee of the Whole shall rise without 
motion. No further consideration of the bill shall be in order except pursuant 
to a subsequent order of the House.
    Sec. 3.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of May 27, 2011, providing for consideration or disposition of a 
measure addressing expiring provisions of the USA PATRIOT Improvement and 
Reauthorization Act of 2005.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
