
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 340 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 340

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          July 8, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1309) to extend the authorization of the national flood insurance 
program, to achieve reforms to improve the financial integrity and stability of 
the program, and to increase the role of private markets in the management of 
flood insurance risk, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Financial Services. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule.
    Sec. 2. (a) It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the 
purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Financial Services now printed in the 
bill. The committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered 
as read. All points of order against the committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute are waived.
    (b) No amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall be in order except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution and amendments en bloc described in section 3 of 
this resolution.
    (c) Each amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules shall be 
considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable 
for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be 
subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole.
    (d) All points of order against amendments printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules or amendments en bloc described in section 3 of this 
resolution are waived.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Financial Services or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of 
amendments printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered pursuant to this 
section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Financial Services or their designees, shall not be subject to amendment, and 
shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in 
the Committee of the Whole. The original proponent of an amendment included in 
such amendments en bloc may insert a statement in the Congressional Record 
immediately before the disposition of the amendments en bloc.
    Sec. 4.  At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as 
may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
