
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 614 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 614

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        April 17, 2012.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4089) to protect and enhance opportunities for recreational hunting, 
fishing and shooting. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural 
Resources. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on Natural Resources now printed in the bill, it 
shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment 
under the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting 
of the text of Rules Committee Print 112-19. That amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed 
in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall 
rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment 
adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the 
nature of a substitute made in order as original text. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final 
passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2. (a) Pending the adoption of a concurrent resolution on the budget 
for fiscal year 2013, the provisions of House Concurrent Resolution 112, as 
adopted by the House, shall have force and effect in the House as though 
Congress has adopted such concurrent resolution (with the modifications 
specified in subsection (b)).
    (b) In section 201(b) of House Concurrent Resolution 112, as adopted by the 
House, the following amounts shall apply:
    (1) $7,710,000,000 (in lieu of $8,200,000,000) for the period of fiscal 
years 2012 and 2013 with respect to the Committee on Agriculture; and
    (2) $3,490,000,000 (in lieu of $3,000,000,000) for the period of fiscal 
years 2012 and 2013 with respect to the Committee on Financial Services.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
