
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 708 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 708

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 28, 2012.
    Resolved, That if House Report 112-546 is called up by direction of the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: (a) all points of order against 
the report are waived and the report shall be considered as read; and
    (b)(1) an accompanying resolution offered by direction of the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform shall be considered as read and shall not be 
subject to a point of order; and
    (2) the previous question shall be considered as ordered on such resolution 
to adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the question 
except: (i) 50 minutes of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or 
their respective designees; (ii) after conclusion of debate one motion to refer 
if offered by Representative Dingell of Michigan or his designee which shall be 
separately debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent; and (iii) one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions. The Chair may reduce the minimum time for electronic voting on the 
question of adoption of the motion to recommit as though pursuant to clause 9 of 
rule XX.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without 
intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. 
Res. 706) authorizing the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to 
initiate or intervene in judicial proceedings to enforce certain subpoenas. The 
resolution shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the resolution to adoption without intervening motion 
or demand for division of the question except: (1) 20 minutes of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader or their 
respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
