
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5882 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 486
112th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5882

                          [Report No. 112-197]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 11, 2012

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             August 2, 2012

         Reported by Mr. Nelson of Nebraska, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2013, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <DELETED>That the 
following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2013, and for other purposes, namely:

             <DELETED>TITLE I--LEGISLATIVE BRANCH</DELETED>

              <DELETED>HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$1,225,680,000, as follows:</DELETED>

              <DELETED>House Leadership Offices</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, 
$23,275,773, including: Office of the Speaker, $6,942,770, including 
$25,000 for official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority 
Floor Leader, $2,277,595, including $10,000 for official expenses of 
the Majority Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $7,432,812, 
including $10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office 
of the Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, 
$1,971,050, including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Whip; Office of the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority 
Whip, $1,524,951, including $5,000 for official expenses of the 
Minority Whip; Republican Conference, $1,572,788; Democratic Caucus, 
$1,553,807.  Provided, That such amount for salaries and expenses shall 
remain available from January 3, 2013 until January 3, 2014.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Members' Representational Allowances</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, 
                      and Official Mail</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For Members' representational allowances, including 
Members' clerk hire, official expenses, and official mail, 
$573,939,282.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Committee Employees</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Standing Committees, Special and Select</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special 
and select, authorized by House resolutions, $125,964,870:  Provided, 
That such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses 
until December 31, 2014.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Committee on Appropriations</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on 
Appropriations, $26,665,785, including studies and examinations of 
executive agencies and temporary personal services for such committee, 
to be expended in accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946 and to be available for reimbursement to 
agencies for services performed:  Provided, That such amount shall 
remain available for such salaries and expenses until December 31, 
2014.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Salaries, Officers and Employees</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, 
as authorized by law, $173,669,084, including: for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $23,000, 
of which not more than $20,000 is for the Family Room, for official 
representation and reception expenses, $22,370,252; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position 
of Superintendent of Garages and the Office of Emergency Management, 
and including not more than $3,000 for official representation and 
reception expenses, $12,585,000, of which $5,463,251 shall remain 
available until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Chief Administrative Officer including not more than $3,000 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $116,782,000, of which 
$3,937,000 shall remain available until expended; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, $4,692,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of General Counsel, $1,415,000; for 
the Office of the Chaplain, $179,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian, $2,000 
for preparing the Digest of Rules, and not more than $1,000 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $2,060,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the 
House, $3,258,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Legislative Counsel of the House, $8,814,000; for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, $859,000; for other 
authorized employees, $484,832; and for salaries and expenses of the 
Historian, $170,000.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Allowances and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House 
resolution or law, $302,165,206, including: supplies, materials, 
administrative costs and Federal tort claims, $3,696,118; official mail 
for committees, leadership offices, and administrative offices of the 
House, $201,000; Government contributions for health, retirement, 
Social Security, and other applicable employee benefits, $272,548,016; 
Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery, $17,112,072, of which 
$5,000,000 shall remain available until expended; transition activities 
for new members and staff, $4,125,000; Wounded Warrior Program 
$2,175,000, to remain available until expended; Office of Congressional 
Ethics, $1,548,000; and miscellaneous items including purchase, 
exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of House motor vehicles, 
interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to heirs of deceased 
employees of the House, $760,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provisions</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 101. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances To Be Used for Deficit Reduction or To 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 2013. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for fiscal 
year 2013 shall be deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit 
reduction (or, if there is no Federal budget deficit after all such 
payments have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, in such manner 
as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of 
the House of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe 
regulations to carry out this section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term 
``Member of the House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, 
or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 102. (a) Section 109(a) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1998 (2 U.S.C. 95d(a)) is amended by striking the 
period at the end and inserting the following: ``, and for reimbursing 
the Secretary of Labor for any amounts paid with respect to 
unemployment compensation payments for former employees of the 
House.''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with 
respect to fiscal year 2013 and each succeeding fiscal year.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 103. (a) Section 101(c)(2) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1993 (2 U.S.C. 95b(c)(2)) is amended by striking 
``and `Allowances and Expenses''' and inserting the following: 
```Allowances and Expenses', the heading for any joint committee under 
the heading `Joint Items' (to the extent that amounts appropriated for 
the joint committee are disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer 
of the House of Representatives), and `Office of the Attending 
Physician'''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with 
respect to fiscal year 2013 and each succeeding fiscal year.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>oversight of office of inspector general</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 104.  (a) Oversight.--The Office of the Inspector 
General of the House of Representatives shall provide the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives with a copy of each 
audit and investigative report the Office produces, and shall consult 
regularly with such Committee with respect to the Office's 
operations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2013 and each succeeding fiscal year.</DELETED>

                     <DELETED>JOINT ITEMS</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For Joint Committees, as follows:</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Joint Economic Committee</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,203,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Joint Committee on Taxation</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on 
Taxation, $10,004,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative 
Officer of the House of Representatives.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    For other joint items, as follows:</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Office of the Attending Physician</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses 
of the emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his 
assistants, including: (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the 
Attending Physician; (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior 
Medical Officer; (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three 
medical officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending 
Physician; (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 
per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore 
provided for such assistants; and (5) $2,603,000 for reimbursement to 
the Department of the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and 
equipment assigned to the Office of the Attending Physician, which 
shall be advanced and credited to the applicable appropriation or 
appropriations from which such salaries, allowances, and other expenses 
are payable and shall be available for all the purposes thereof, 
$3,467,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Office of Congressional Accessibility Services</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,363,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>CAPITOL POLICE</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>salaries</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime, hazardous duty pay, and Government contributions for health, 
retirement, social security, professional liability insurance, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $297,133,000, to be disbursed by 
the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee.</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>general expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including 
motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment 
and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, 
medical services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal 
and professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation 
of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $63,004,000, of which 
$2,700,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2015 to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of 
basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for fiscal year 2013 shall be paid by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland 
Security.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provisions</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

  <DELETED>authority to transfer amounts between salaries and general 
                           expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1001. During fiscal year 2013 and any succeeding 
fiscal year, the Capitol Police may transfer amounts appropriated for 
the fiscal year between the category for salaries and the category for 
general expenses, upon the approval of the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and Senate.</DELETED>

  <DELETED>funds available for workers compensation payments</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1002. (a) In General.--Available balances of expired 
United States Capitol Police appropriations shall be available to the 
Capitol Police to make the deposit to the credit of the Employees' 
Compensation Fund required by section 8147(b) of title 5, United States 
Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1018 of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 1907) is amended by striking 
subsection (f).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect 
to appropriations for fiscal year 2013 and each fiscal year 
thereafter.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,817,000, of which $527,500 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2014:  Provided, That not more than $500 
may be expended on the certification of the Executive Director of the 
Office of Compliance in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provision</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1101. (a) The second sentence of section 415(a) of 
the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1415(a)) is 
amended to read as follows: ``There are appropriated for such account 
such sums as may be necessary to pay such awards and 
settlements.''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with 
respect to fiscal year 2013 and each succeeding fiscal year.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $44,280,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provision</DELETED>

      <DELETED>acceptance of voluntary student services</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1201. (a) Section 3111(e) of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) by striking ``(e)'' and inserting ``(e)(1)''; 
        and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(2) In this section, the term `agency' includes the 
Congressional Budget Office, except that in the case of the 
Congressional Budget Office--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(A) any student who provides voluntary service 
        in accordance with this section shall be considered an employee 
        of the Congressional Budget Office for purposes of section 203 
        of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to the level 
        of confidentiality of budget data); and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(B) the authority granted to the Office of 
        Personnel Management under this section shall be exercised by 
        the Director of the Congressional Budget Office.''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with 
respect to fiscal year 2013 and each succeeding fiscal year.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL</DELETED>

               <DELETED>General Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other 
personal services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and 
studies in connection with activities under the care of the Architect 
of the Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and 
administrative support of the operations under the Architect of the 
Capitol including the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, and other facilities under 
the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings 
and office equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect 
of the Capitol may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle, $90,755,000, of which $999,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2017.</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>Capitol Building</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the Capitol, $28,591,000, of which $3,500,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>Capitol Grounds</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of 
grounds surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, 
and the Capitol Power Plant, $17,152,000, of which $7,300,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2017.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>House Office Buildings</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the House office buildings, $83,964,000, of which 
$19,362,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2017.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, for a payment to the House Historic Buildings 
Revitalization Trust Fund, $30,000,000, shall remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Capitol Power Plant</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power 
(including the purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer 
services for the Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of 
Congress buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, 
Senate garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from 
plants in any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office 
and Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $108,616,000, of which $23,404,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That not more than 
$9,400,000 of the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this 
appropriation as herein provided shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2013.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Library Buildings and Grounds</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and 
structural maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and 
grounds, $30,660,000, of which $4,900,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2017.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds, and Security</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United 
States Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computer 
Facility, and AOC security operations, $20,867,000, of which $2,840,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2017.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>Botanic Garden</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, 
and collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $12,140,000 (reduced by $1,235,000):  
Provided, That of the amount made available under this heading, the 
Architect of the Capitol may obligate and expend such sums as may be 
necessary for the maintenance, care and operation of the National 
Garden established under section 307E of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1989 (2 U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved by the 
Architect of the Capitol or a duly authorized designee.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Capitol Visitor Center</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the 
Capitol Visitor Center, $21,276,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provision</DELETED>

  <DELETED>funds available for workers compensation payments</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1301. (a) In General.--Available balances of expired 
Architect of the Capitol appropriations shall be available to the 
Architect of the Capitol to make the deposit to the credit of the 
Employees' Compensation Fund required by section 8147(b) of title 5, 
United States Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect 
to appropriations for fiscal year 2013 and each fiscal year 
thereafter.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>LIBRARY OF CONGRESS</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not 
otherwise provided for, including development and maintenance of the 
Library's catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library 
buildings; special clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of 
uniforms; preservation of motion pictures in the custody of the 
Library; operation and maintenance of the American Folklife Center in 
the Library; activities under the Civil Rights History Project Act of 
2009; preparation and distribution of catalog records and other 
publications of the Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor 
vehicle; and expenses of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not 
properly chargeable to the income of any trust fund held by the Board, 
$422,024,000, of which not more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from 
collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal year 2013, and 
shall remain available until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 
(chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 
shall be derived from collections during fiscal year 2013 and shall 
remain available until expended for the development and maintenance of 
an international legal information database and activities related 
thereto:  Provided, That the Library of Congress may not obligate or 
expend any funds derived from collections under the Act of June 28, 
1902, in excess of the amount authorized for obligation or expenditure 
in appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $6,350,000:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on 
the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field 
Offices:  Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$7,068,000 shall remain available until expended for the digital 
collections and educational curricula program.</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>Copyright Office</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, 
$52,136,000, of which not more than $28,029,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2013 under section 708(d) of title 17, 
United States Code:  Provided, That the Copyright Office may not 
obligate or expend any funds derived from collections under such 
section, in excess of the amount authorized for obligation or 
expenditure in appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That not more 
than $5,582,000 shall be derived from collections during fiscal year 
2013 under sections 111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 803(e), 1005, and 1316 of 
such title:  Provided further, That the total amount available for 
obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which collections are less 
than $33,611,000:  Provided further, That not more than $100,000 of the 
amount appropriated is available for the maintenance of an 
``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the 
Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals of developing 
countries in intellectual property laws and policies:  Provided 
further, That not more than $4,250 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for activities of the 
International Copyright Institute and for copyright delegations, 
visitors, and seminars:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United States Code, any amounts 
made available under this heading which are attributable to royalty 
fees and payments received by the Copyright Office pursuant to sections 
111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may be used for the costs 
incurred in the administration of the Copyright Royalty Judges program, 
with the exception of the costs of salaries and benefits for the 
Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under section 802(e).</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Congressional Research Service</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 203 of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 
166) and to revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United 
States of America, $107,668,000 (reduced by $878,000):  Provided, That 
no part of such amount may be used to pay any salary or expense in 
connection with any publication, or preparation of material therefor 
(except the Digest of Public General Bills), to be issued by the 
Library of Congress unless such publication has obtained prior approval 
of either the Committee on House Administration of the House of 
Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 
1931 (chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $50,775,000:  
Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, $650,000 shall be 
available to contract to provide newspapers to blind and physically 
handicapped residents at no cost to the individual.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provision</DELETED>

     <DELETED>reimbursable and revolving fund activities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1401. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2013, the 
obligational authority of the Library of Congress for the activities 
described in subsection (b) may not exceed $178,958,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection 
(a) are reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from 
sources other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts 
for the legislative branch.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>authority to transfer amounts between categories of 
                        appropriations</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1402. (a) In General.--During fiscal year 2013 and 
any succeeding fiscal year, the Librarian of Congress may transfer 
amounts appropriated for the fiscal year between the categories of 
appropriations provided under law for the Library of Congress for the 
fiscal year, upon the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and Senate.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Limitation.--Not more than 10 percent of the total 
amount of funds appropriated to the account under any category of 
appropriations for the Library of Congress for a fiscal year may be 
transferred from that account by all transfers made under subsection 
(a).</DELETED>

             <DELETED>GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE</DELETED>

         <DELETED>Congressional Printing and Binding</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and 
the distribution of Congressional information in any format; expenses 
necessary for preparing the semimonthly and session index to the 
Congressional Record, as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, 
United States Code); printing and binding of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and 
printing, binding, and distribution of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the recipient, 
$83,632,000 (reduced by $218,379) (increased by $218,379):  Provided, 
That this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations 
incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year 
limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of 
the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in 
this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years may be transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving 
fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
sections 901, 902, and 906 of title 44, United States Code, this 
appropriation may be used to prepare indexes to the Congressional 
Record on only a monthly and session basis.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Office of Superintendent of Documents</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents 
necessary to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government 
publications and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, 
other Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $34,728,000:  Provided, That 
amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year appropriations 
are authorized for producing and disseminating Congressional serial 
sets and other related publications for fiscal years 2011 and 2012 to 
depository and other designated libraries:  Provided further, That any 
unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or accounts for 
similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund for carrying out the purposes 
of this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>Government Printing Office Revolving Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment to the Government Printing Office Revolving 
Fund, $4,096,000, to remain available until expended, for information 
technology development and facilities repair:  Provided, That the 
Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund:  Provided further, That not 
more than $7,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public 
Printer in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses:  Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available 
for the hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles:  
Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses 
of the advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed 
necessary to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code:  
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That activities financed through the revolving fund may provide 
information in any format:  Provided further, That the revolving fund 
and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of 
Documents'' and ``Salaries and Expenses'' may not be used for 
contracted security services at GPO's passport facility in the District 
of Columbia.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability 
Office, including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the 
certification of the Comptroller General of the United States in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses; 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5315 of such title; hire of one 
passenger motor vehicle; advance payments in foreign countries in 
accordance with section 3324 of title 31, United States Code; benefits 
comparable to those payable under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and 
under regulations prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United 
States, rental of living quarters in foreign countries, $519,802,000:  
Provided, That, in addition, $24,318,000 of payments received under 
sections 782, 3521, and 9105 of title 31, United States Code, shall be 
available without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the National 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit 
Forum shall be available to finance an appropriate share of either 
Forum's costs as determined by the respective Forum, including 
necessary travel expenses of non-Federal participants:  Provided 
further, That payments hereunder to the Forum may be credited as 
reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs involved are 
initially financed.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provision</DELETED>

  <DELETED>funds available for workers compensation payments</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1501. (a) In General.--Available balances of expired 
Government Accountability Office appropriations shall be available to 
the Government Accountability Office to make the deposit to the credit 
of the Employees' Compensation Fund required by section 8147(b) of 
title 5, United States Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect 
to appropriations for fiscal year 2013 and each fiscal year 
thereafter.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust 
Fund for financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under 
section 313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 
U.S.C. 1151), $1,000,000 (reduced by $1,000,000).</DELETED>

            <DELETED>TITLE II--GENERAL PROVISIONS</DELETED>

      <DELETED>maintenance and care of private vehicles</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act 
shall be used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except 
for emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under 
regulations relating to parking facilities for the House of 
Representatives issued by the Committee on House Administration and for 
the Senate issued by the Committee on Rules and 
Administration.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>fiscal year limitation</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 202.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act 
shall remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2013 unless 
expressly so provided in this Act.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>rates of compensation and designation</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 
32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or 
designation of any office or position appropriated for is different 
from that specifically established by such Act, the rate of 
compensation and the designation in this Act shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto:  Provided, That the provisions in this Act for 
the various items of official expenses of Members, officers, and 
committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, and clerk hire 
for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives shall be the 
permanent law with respect thereto.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>consulting services</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, under 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued under existing 
law.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>costs of lbfmc</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 205.  Amounts available for administrative expenses 
of any legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative 
Branch Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on 
March 26, 1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of 
LBFMC costs as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC 
costs to be shared among all participating legislative branch entities 
(in such allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) 
may not exceed $2,000.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>landscape maintenance</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 206.  The Architect of the Capitol, in consultation 
with the District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve 
the landscape features, excluding streets, in the irregular shaped 
grassy areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW on the northeast, Second 
Street, SW, on the west, Square 582 on the south, and the beginning of 
the I-395 tunnel on the southeast.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>limitation on transfers</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 207.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or 
transfer authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation 
Act.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>guided tours of the capitol</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 208. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none 
of the funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act 
may be used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States 
Capitol which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of 
Congress and other offices of the House of Representatives and 
Senate.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at 
the direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>delivery of bills and resolutions</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 209.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to deliver a printed copy of a bill, joint resolution, or 
resolution to the office of a Member of the House of Representatives 
(including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress) unless 
the Member requests a copy.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>delivery of congressional record</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 210.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to deliver a printed copy of any version of the 
Congressional Record to the office of a Member of the House of 
Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the 
Congress).</DELETED>

  <DELETED>limitation on amount available to lease vehicles</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 211.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
Representatives to make any payments from any Members' Representational 
Allowance for the leasing of a vehicle, excluding mobile district 
offices, in an aggregate amount that exceeds $1,000 for the vehicle in 
any month.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>authorizing commercial activity on union square</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 212.  (a) Continuation of Types of Activity 
Previously Authorized.--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any limitations 
        on the use of the United States Capitol Grounds (including 
        section 5104(c) of title 40, United States Code), the Chief of 
        the United States Capitol Police (hereafter referred to as the 
        ``Chief'')--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) may issue a permit authorizing a 
                person to engage in commercial activity in Union Square 
                if the activity is similar to the types of commercial 
                activity permitted in Union Square prior to the 
                transfer of jurisdiction and control of Union Square to 
                the Architect of the Capitol under section 1202 of the 
                Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 
                112-74); and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) under the terms and conditions of such 
                a permit, may require the person to whom the permit is 
                issued to pay a fee to cover any costs incurred by the 
                Architect of the Capitol as a result of the issuance of 
                the permit, if the fees are similar to the fees 
                collected by the Director of the National Park Service 
                for commercial activity permitted in Union Square prior 
                to such transfer of jurisdiction and control.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Regulations.--The Chief shall carry out this 
        section in accordance with such regulations as the Capitol 
        Police Board may promulgate pursuant to the Board's authority 
        under section 14 of the Act of July 31, 1946 (2 U.S.C. 
        1969).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Capitol Trust Account.--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Establishment.--There is established in the 
        Treasury of the United States an account for the Architect of 
        the Capitol to be known as the ``Capitol Trust Account'', 
        consisting of all fees collected by the Chief under subsection 
        (a)(2).</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Transfer.--Immediately upon receiving any fees 
        collected under subsection (a)(2), the Chief shall transfer the 
        fees to the Capitol Trust Account.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) Use of funds.--Amounts in the Capitol Trust 
        Account shall be available without fiscal year limitation for 
        such maintenance, improvements, and projects with respect to 
        Union Square as the Architect of the Capitol considers 
        appropriate, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
        Senate.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Union Square.--In this section, the term ``Union 
Square'' means the area for which jurisdiction and control was 
transferred to the Architect of the Capitol under section 1202 of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-
74).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the 
date of the enactment of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
2012 (Public Law 112-74).</DELETED>

             <DELETED>spending reduction account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 213.  The amount by which the applicable allocation 
of new budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, excluding Senate items, exceeds the amount of 
proposed new budget authority is $0 (increased by $1,235,000) 
(increased by $878,000) (increased by $1,000,000).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 214.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to provide an aggregate number of more than 50 printed 
copies of any edition of the United States Code to all offices of the 
House of Representatives.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2013''.</DELETED>
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2013, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                                 SENATE

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $18,760; the 
President Pro Tempore of the Senate, $37,520; Majority Leader of the 
Senate, $39,920; Minority Leader of the Senate, $39,920; Majority Whip 
of the Senate, $9,980; Minority Whip of the Senate, $9,980; Chairmen of 
the Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $4,690 for each 
Chairman; and Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy Committees, 
$4,690 for each Chairman; in all, $174,840.

    Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $14,070 for each such Leader; in all, $28,140.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized 
by law, including agency contributions, $178,204,590, which shall be 
paid from this appropriation without regard to the following 
limitations:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $2,370,248.

                  office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $708,466.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $5,221,576.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $3,295,424.

                      committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $14,864,000.

                         conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,626,195 for each such committee; in all, $3,252,390.

 offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority 
and the Conference of the Minority, $797,402.

                           policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,660,905 for each such committee; in all, 
$3,321,810.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $407,886.

                        office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $24,695,000.

             office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $73,000,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,730,388.

               agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $44,540,000. 

            Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $7,022,300.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,455,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                             of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $7,110; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for 
the Majority of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $7,110; in all, $28,440.

                   Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted under paragraph 1 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, section 112 of the Supplemental Appropriations and 
Rescission Act, 1980 (Public Law 96-304), and Senate Resolution 281, 
96th Congress, agreed to March 11, 1980, $133,932,000, of which 
$26,650,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2015.

expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $487,822.

                        secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$6,350,000 of which $4,350,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2017.

             sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate, $128,910,000, which shall remain available until 
September 30, 2017.

                          miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $20,260,000, which shall remain available 
until September 30, 2015.

        senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$394,202,000 of which $18,921,206 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2015.

                          official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$281,436.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$1,225,680,000, as follows:

                        House Leadership Offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $23,275,773, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $6,942,770, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$2,277,595, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $7,432,812, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,971,050, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, 
$1,524,951, including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority 
Whip; Republican Conference, $1,572,788; Democratic Caucus, $1,553,807: 
 Provided, That such amount for salaries and expenses shall remain 
available from January 3, 2013 until January 3, 2014.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

   Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                             Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $573,939,282.

                          Committee Employees

                Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $125,964,870:  Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2014.

                      Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$26,665,785, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed:  Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2014.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $173,669,084, including: for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $23,000, of which 
not more than $20,000 is for the Family Room, for official 
representation and reception expenses, $22,370,252; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position 
of Superintendent of Garages and the Office of Emergency Management, 
and including not more than $3,000 for official representation and 
reception expenses, $12,585,000, of which $5,463,251 shall remain 
available until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Chief Administrative Officer including not more than $3,000 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $116,782,000, of which 
$3,937,000 shall remain available until expended; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, $4,692,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of General Counsel, $1,415,000; for 
the Office of the Chaplain, $179,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian, $2,000 
for preparing the Digest of Rules, and not more than $1,000 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $2,060,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the 
House, $3,258,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Legislative Counsel of the House, $8,814,000; for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, $859,000; for other 
authorized employees, $484,832; and for salaries and expenses of the 
Historian, $170,000.

                        Allowances and Expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $302,165,206, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $3,696,118; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $201,000; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $272,548,016; Business Continuity 
and Disaster Recovery, $17,112,072, of which $5,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended; transition activities for new members and 
staff, $4,125,000; Wounded Warrior Program $2,175,000, to remain 
available until expended; Office of Congressional Ethics, $1,548,000; 
and miscellaneous items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, 
repair and operation of House motor vehicles, interparliamentary 
receptions, and gratuities to heirs of deceased employees of the House, 
$760,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances To Be Used for Deficit Reduction or To 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 2013. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for fiscal 
year 2013 shall be deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit 
reduction (or, if there is no Federal budget deficit after all such 
payments have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, in such manner 
as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).
    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations 
to carry out this section.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member of the 
House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, or a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.
    Sec. 102. (a) Section 109(a) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1998 (2 U.S.C. 95d(a)) is amended by striking the 
period at the end and inserting the following: ``, and for reimbursing 
the Secretary of Labor for any amounts paid with respect to 
unemployment compensation payments for former employees of the 
House.''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2013 and each succeeding fiscal year.
    Sec. 103. (a) Section 101(c)(2) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1993 (2 U.S.C. 95b(c)(2)) is amended by striking 
``and `Allowances and Expenses''' and inserting the following: 
```Allowances and Expenses', the heading for any joint committee under 
the heading `Joint Items' (to the extent that amounts appropriated for 
the joint committee are disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer 
of the House of Representatives), and `Office of the Attending 
Physician'''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2013 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                oversight of office of inspector general

    Sec. 104.  (a) Oversight.--The Office of the Inspector General of 
the House of Representatives shall provide the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives with a copy of each 
audit and investigative report the Office produces, and shall consult 
regularly with such Committee with respect to the Office's operations.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
fiscal year 2013 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,203,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$10,004,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives.

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including:
            (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
        Physician;
            (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior Medical 
        Officer;
            (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three medical 
        officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending 
        Physician;
            (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 
        per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis 
        heretofore provided for such assistants; and
            (5) $2,603,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
        Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to 
        the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced 
        and credited to the applicable appropriation or appropriations 
        from which such salaries, allowances, and other expenses are 
        payable and shall be available for all the purposes thereof, 
        $3,400,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer 
        of the House of Representatives.

             Office of Congressional Accessibility Services

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,367,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.

                      UNITED STATES CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime, hazardous duty pay differential, and Government contributions 
for health, retirement, social security, professional liability 
insurance, and other applicable employee benefits, $277,133,000, of 
which not more than $32,622,000 shall be for overtime, to be disbursed 
by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation 
of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $56,004,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of 
basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for fiscal year 2013 shall be paid by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland 
Security.

                        ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION

  authority to transfer amounts between salaries and general expenses

    Sec. 1101.  During fiscal year 2013 and any succeeding fiscal year, 
the Capitol Police may transfer amounts appropriated for the fiscal 
year between the category for salaries and the category for general 
expenses, upon the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and Senate.

           funds available for workers compensation payments

    Sec. 1102. (a) In General.--Available balances of expired United 
States Capitol Police appropriations shall be available to the Capitol 
Police to make the deposit to the credit of the Employees' Compensation 
Fund required by section 8147(b) of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1018 of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 1907) is amended by striking 
subsection (f).
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
appropriations for fiscal year 2013 and each fiscal year thereafter.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,817,000, of which $527,500 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2014:  Provided, That not more than $500 
may be expended on the certification of the Executive Director of the 
Office of Compliance in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $44,637,000.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         General Administration

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and studies in 
connection with activities under the care of the Architect of the 
Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and administrative 
support of the operations under the Architect of the Capitol including 
the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and 
House office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of 
the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and office 
equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol 
may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a 
passenger motor vehicle, $102,172,000, of which $3,249,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017.

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $91,170,000, of which $4,200,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2017, and of which $61,247,000 shall remain 
available until expended solely for expenses related to rehabilitation 
of the U.S. Capitol Dome.

                            Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $15,004,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017.

                        Senate Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be 
expended under the control and supervision of the Architect of the 
Capitol, $79,392,000, of which $19,654,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2017.

                         House Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $83,964,000, of which $19,362,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2017.
    In addition, for a payment to the House Historic Buildings 
Revitalization Trust Fund, $30,000,000, shall remain available until 
expended.

                          Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $90,833,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That not more than $9,000,000 of 
the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein 
provided shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2013.

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$30,964,000 of which $4,800,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2017.

             Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds and Security

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United States 
Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computer Facility, and 
AOC security operations, $22,589,000, of which $3,500,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017.

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $12,140,000, of which $1,082,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That of the 
amount made available under this heading, the Architect of the Capitol 
may obligate and expend such sums as may be necessary for the 
maintenance, care and operation of the National Garden established 
under section 307E of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 
(2 U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved by the Architect of the Capitol 
or a duly authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the Capitol Visitor 
Center, $21,588,000.

                        Administrative Provision

           funds available for workers compensation payments

    Sec. 1201. (a) In General.--Available balances of expired Architect 
of the Capitol appropriations shall be available to the Architect of 
the Capitol to make the deposit to the credit of the Employees' 
Compensation Fund required by section 8147(b) of title 5, United States 
Code.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
appropriations for fiscal year 2013 and each fiscal year thereafter.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; activities 
under the Civil Rights History Project Act of 2009; preparation and 
distribution of catalog records and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $422,298,000, of which not 
more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2013, and shall remain available until 
expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 
U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2013 and shall remain available until 
expended for the development and maintenance of an international legal 
information database and activities related thereto:  Provided, That 
the Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived 
from collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than $6,350,000: 
 Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, not more than 
$12,000 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for the Overseas Field Offices:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $6,959,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the digital collections and educational curricula program.

                            Copyright Office

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $51,909,000, of 
which not more than $28,029,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2013 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code:  
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any 
funds derived from collections under such section, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That not more than $5,582,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2013 under sections 111(d)(2), 
119(b)(2), 803(e), 1005, and 1316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
amount by which collections are less than $33,611,000:  Provided 
further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is 
available for the maintenance of an ``International Copyright 
Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the 
purpose of training nationals of developing countries in intellectual 
property laws and policies:  Provided further, That not more than 
$4,250 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for activities of the International Copyright Institute and 
for copyright delegations, visitors, and seminars:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United 
States Code, any amounts made available under this heading which are 
attributable to royalty fees and payments received by the Copyright 
Office pursuant to sections 111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may 
be used for the costs incurred in the administration of the Copyright 
Royalty Judges program, with the exception of the costs of salaries and 
benefits for the Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under section 
802(e).

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $107,324,000:  Provided, That no part of such amount may be 
used to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, 
or preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public 
General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such 
publication has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $50,674,000:  Provided, 
That of the total amount appropriated, $650,000 shall be available to 
contract to provide newspapers to blind and physically handicapped 
residents at no cost to the individual.

                       Administrative Provisions

               reimbursable and revolving fund activities

    Sec. 1301 (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2013, the obligational 
authority of the Library of Congress for the activities described in 
subsection (b) may not exceed $178,958,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources 
other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.
    (c) Transfer of Funds.--During fiscal year 2013, the Librarian of 
Congress may temporarily transfer funds appropriated in this Act, under 
the heading ``Library of Congress'', under the subheading ``Salaries 
and Expenses'', to the revolving fund for the FEDLINK Program and the 
Federal Research Program established under section 103 of the Library 
of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-
481; 2 U.S.C. 182c):  Provided, That the total amount of such transfers 
may not exceed $1,900,000:  Provided further, That the appropriate 
revolving fund account shall reimburse the Library for any amounts 
transferred to it before the period of availability of the Library 
appropriation expires.

                           transfer authority

    Sec. 1302 (a) In General.--Effective in fiscal year 2013 and each 
succeeding fiscal year, amounts appropriated for the Library of 
Congress may be transferred during the fiscal year between any of the 
headings under the heading ``Library of Congress'' upon the approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives.
    (b) Limitation.--Not more than 10 percent of the total amount of 
funds appropriated to the account under any heading under the heading 
``Library of Congress'' in the fiscal year may be transferred from that 
account by all transfers made under subsection (a).

                   nonappropriated funds initiatives

    Sec. 1303. (a) Revolving Funds.--The Library of Congress Fiscal 
Operations Improvement Act of 2000 (2 U.S.C. 182a et seq.; Public Law 
106-481) is amended--
            (1) in section 101 (2 U.S.C. 182a)--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking 
                ``duplication'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``duplication and delivery 
                        services provided by'' and inserting ``the 
                        following programs and activities of'';
                            (ii) by striking the period and inserting a 
                        colon; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(1) Services related to duplication and preservation of 
        audiovisual materials and associated collections.
            ``(2) Storage and delivery of audiovisual materials and 
        associated collections.''; and
            (2) in section 102(a) (2 U.S.C. 182b(a))--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking the heading 
                and inserting ``revolving fund for sales shop and other 
                services''; and
                    (B) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the 
                following:
            ``(5) Traveling exhibitions and exhibition materials.
            ``(6) Training.''.

                                 gifts

    Sec. 1304.  The first undesignated paragraph of section 4 of the 
Act entitled ``An Act to create a Library of Congress Trust Fund Board, 
and for other purposes'', approved March 3, 1925 (2 U.S.C. 160), is 
amended--
     (a) in the first sentence, by striking ``in the name of the United 
States'' and all that follows and inserting the following: ``in the 
name of the United States and in the interest of the Library, its 
collections, or its service, gifts or bequests of money for immediate 
disbursement, personal property, non-personal services, or voluntary 
and uncompensated personal services.'';
    (b) in the second sentence, by inserting ``of money'' after 
``bequests'';
    (c) in the fourth sentence, by striking ``enter them'' and 
inserting ``enter the gift, bequest or proceeds'';
    (d) by inserting after the second sentence the following: ``In the 
case of a gift of securities, the librarian shall sell the securities 
and provide the donor with a receipt from the proceeds of the sale.''; 
and
    (e) by adding the following sentence at the end of the first 
paragraph: ``The librarian shall make an annual public report regarding 
gifts accepted under this section.''.

amendments to the act entitled ``an act to provide books for the adult 
                                blind''

    Sec. 1305.  The Act entitled ``An Act to provide books for the 
adult blind'', approved March 3, 1931 (2 U.S.C. 135a, 135b), is 
amended--
            (1) in the first section--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                            (i) by striking ``other physically 
                        handicapped residents'' and inserting ``other 
                        persons with disabilities who are residents'';
                            (ii) by striking ``other physically 
                        handicapped readers'' and inserting ``other 
                        persons with disabilities''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``as a result of physical 
                        limitations'' and inserting ``as a result of 
                        disability''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``other 
                physically handicapped persons'' and inserting ``other 
                persons with disabilities'';
            (2) in section 2--
                    (A) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection 
                (c); and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (a) the 
                following:
    ``(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the lending of 
such books, recordings, and reproducers under the direction of the 
Librarian of Congress as described in the first section shall be for 
the use of blind and other physically handicapped residents of the 
United States, including the several States, Territories, and insular 
possessions and the District of Columbia.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``Sec. 3. For the purpose of this Act--
            ``(1) the term `disability' means a disability as defined 
        under section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 
        (42 U.S.C. 12102); and
            ``(2) the term `competent authority' means--
                    ``(A) a doctor of medicine, doctor of osteopathy, 
                ophthalmologist, optometrist, registered nurse, 
                therapist, professional staff of a hospital, social or 
                case worker for a public welfare agency, psychologist, 
                educational diagnostician, rehabilitation teacher, 
                superintendent, reading specialist, or professional 
                librarian; or
                    ``(B) a special educator or other person whose 
                competence under specific circumstances is acceptable 
                to the Librarian of Congress.''.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional 
Record, as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, United States 
Code); printing and binding of Government publications authorized by 
law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, 
and distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $83,632,000:  Provided, 
That this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations 
incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year 
limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of 
the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in 
this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years may be transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving 
fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate.

                 Office of Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $34,728,000:  Provided, That 
amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year appropriations 
are authorized for producing and disseminating congressional serial 
sets and other related publications for fiscal years 2011 and 2012 to 
depository and other designated libraries:  Provided further, That any 
unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or accounts for 
similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund for carrying out the purposes 
of this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

               Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    For payment to the Government Printing Office Revolving Fund, 
$7,840,000 for information technology development:  Provided, That the 
Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund:  Provided further, That not 
more than $7,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public 
Printer in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses:  Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available 
for the hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles:  
Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses 
of the advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed 
necessary to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code:  
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That activities financed through the revolving fund may provide 
information in any format:  Provided further, That the revolving fund 
and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of 
Documents'' and ``Salaries and Expenses'' may not be used for 
contracted security services at GPO's passport facility in the District 
of Columbia.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability Office, 
including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of 
the Comptroller General of the United States in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses; temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; 
advance payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 
of title 31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable 
under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations prescribed by 
the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living quarters 
in foreign countries, $513,842,000:  Provided, That in addition, 
$24,318,000 of payments received under sections 782, 3521, and 9105 of 
title 31, United States Code, shall be available without fiscal year 
limitation:  Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum 
or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by 
the respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-
Federal participants:  Provided further, That payments hereunder to the 
Forum may be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which 
costs involved are initially financed.

                        Administrative Provision

           funds available for workers compensation payments

    Sec. 1401. (a) In General.--Available balances of expired 
Government Accountability Office appropriations shall be available to 
the Government Accountability Office to make the deposit to the credit 
of the Employees' Compensation Fund required by section 8147(b) of 
title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
appropriations for fiscal year 2013 and each fiscal year thereafter.

                OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under section 
313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), 
$10,000,000.

   JOHN C. STENNIS CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

    For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service 
Development Trust Fund established under section 116 of the John C. 
Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development Act (2 
U.S.C. 1105), $430,000.

                                TITLE II

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                maintenance and care of private vehicles

    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.

                         fiscal year limitation

    Sec. 202.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

                 rates of compensation and designation

    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 
32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or 
designation of any office or position appropriated for is different 
from that specifically established by such Act, the rate of 
compensation and the designation in this Act shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto:  Provided, That the provisions in this Act for 
the various items of official expenses of Members, officers, and 
committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, and clerk hire 
for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives shall be the 
permanent law with respect thereto.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order issued under existing law.

                         awards and settlements

    Sec. 205.  Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of the Congressional 
Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1415(a)) to pay awards and 
settlements as authorized under such subsection.

                             costs of lbfmc

    Sec. 206.  Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $2,000.

                         landscape maintenance

    Sec. 207.  The Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the 
District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the 
landscape features, excluding streets, in the irregular shaped grassy 
areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW, on the northeast, Second 
Street, SW, on the west, Square 582 on the south, and the beginning of 
the I-395 tunnel on the southeast.

                        limitation on transfers

    Sec. 208.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.

                      guided tours of the capitol

    Sec. 209. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act may be 
used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States Capitol 
which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of 
Congress and other offices of the House of Representatives and Senate.
    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at the 
direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.

                  commercial activity on union square

    Sec. 210. (a) In General.--Chapter 51 of title 40, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 5102, by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Union Square.--The Capitol Grounds shall include the property 
transferred to the Architect of the Capitol under section 1202 of title 
I of division G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public 
Law 112-74).''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 5110. Use of Union Square
    ``(a) Definition.--In this section, the term `Union Square' means 
the property transferred to the Architect of the Capitol under section 
1202 of title I of division G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2012 (Public Law 112-74).
    ``(b) Commercial Permitting.--Notwithstanding sections 5102, 5103, 
5104, 5105, 5106, and 5109, and in accordance with the regulations 
promulgated under subsection (f), the Capitol Police may issue a permit 
authorizing a person to engage in commercial activity in Union Square 
in a manner that will not interfere with Congress.
    ``(c) Fees.--
            ``(1) In general.--In accordance with the regulations 
        promulgated under subsection (f)(2), the Capitol Police may 
        collect--
                    ``(A) fees for the processing of an application to 
                use Union Square, including any administrative and 
                personnel costs incurred by the Capitol Police or the 
                Architect of the Capitol; and
                    ``(B) fees for the use of Union Square, including 
                all costs incurred by the Capitol Police or the 
                Architect of the Capitol resulting from the use of 
                Union Square, including the costs to monitor the 
                permitted activity.
            ``(2) Establishment of fees by capitol police.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Capitol Police, after 
                consultation with the Architect of the Capitol, shall 
                establish the amount of the fees authorized under 
                paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Adjustment.--The Capitol Police shall 
                periodically review and, subject to approval by the 
                Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and 
                the Committee on House Administration of the House of 
                Representatives, adjust the amount of the fees 
                authorized under paragraph (1), as necessary.
    ``(d) Account, Deposits, Disbursements, and Transfers.--
            ``(1) Account.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
        United States an account for the Capitol Police to be known as 
        the `Union Square Commercial Activities Account' (in this 
        section referred to as the `Union Square Account').
            ``(2) Deposits in the union square account.--There shall be 
        deposited in the Union Square Account all amounts received from 
        the fees collected under subsection (c).
            ``(3) Use of monies.--The amounts in the Union Square 
        Account shall be available without fiscal year limitation or 
        further appropriation for disbursement by the Capitol Police to 
        defray expenses associated with Union Square and to reimburse 
        the Architect of the Capitol under paragraph (4).
            ``(4) Reimbursement and transfer authority.--
                    ``(A) Reimbursement of the architect of the 
                capitol.--The Capitol Police shall transfer from the 
                Union Square Account to the appropriations account 
                appropriated under the heading `Capitol Grounds' under 
                the heading `ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL' an amount equal 
                to the costs incurred by the Architect of the Capitol 
                relating to the use of Union Square.
                    ``(B) Transfer to other accounts.--The Capitol 
                Police may transfer from the Union Square Account to 
                any applicable appropriations accounts of the Capitol 
                Police amounts necessary to reimburse the accounts for 
                costs incurred relating to the use of Union Square.
                    ``(C) Availability.--Any amounts transferred under 
                this paragraph shall be available for the same purpose 
                as the appropriation account to which such sums are 
                transferred and shall remain available until expended.
    ``(e) Audit.--As determined appropriate by the Inspector General of 
the Capitol Police or the Inspector General of the Architect of the 
Capitol, or as directed by the Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration 
of the Senate, either such Inspector General shall audit the Union 
Square Account.
    ``(f) Regulations.--Subject to approval by the Committee on Rules 
and Administration of the Senate and the Committee on House 
Administration of the House of Representatives, the Capitol Police 
Board shall promulgate regulations relating to the use of Union Square 
for commercial activity, which shall--
            ``(1) describe the types of commercial activity authorized 
        (which shall be substantially similar to the types of 
        commercial activity permitted in Union Square on the day before 
        the date of enactment of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
        2012 (Public Law 112-74)); and
            ``(2) provide for the payment of fees and costs that are 
        substantially similar to those collected by the National Park 
        Service on the day before the date of enactment of the 
        Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-74)).''.
    (b) Authority To Waive Certain Restrictions During Transition 
Period.--
            (1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``Union 
        Square'' has the meaning given that term in section 5110 of 
        title 40, United States Code, as added by this section.
            (2) Authority.--Any waiver granted by the Capitol Police 
        Board, in consultation with the Capitol Police, of the 
        application of any limitation on the use of lands under the 
        jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol or the Capitol 
        Grounds (including section 5104 of title 40, United States 
        Code) with respect to a person engaging in commercial activity 
        in Union Square during the period described in paragraph (3) 
        shall be deemed an authorized waiver if the activity would have 
        been treated as permissible commercial activity under the 
        regulations promulgated by the Capitol Police Board under 
        section 5110(f) of title 40, United States Code, as added by 
        this section, if the regulations had been in effect at the time 
        the person engaged in the activity.
            (3) Period described.--The period described in this 
        paragraph is the period beginning on the date of enactment of 
        the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-74) 
        and ending on the date on which the regulations promulgated by 
        the Capitol Police Board under section 5110(f) of title 40, 
        United States Code, as added by this section, take effect.
    (c) No Effect on Permits Issued Prior to Transfer.--Nothing in this 
section, the amendments made by this section, or section 1202 of title 
I of division G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public 
Law 112-74) shall be construed to affect any permit for engaging in 
commercial activity in Union Square (as defined in section 5110 of 
title 40, United States Code, as added by this section) which was 
issued by the National Park Service before the date of enactment of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012.
    (d) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) In general.--Section 9 of the Act entitled ``An Act to 
        define the area of the United States Capitol Grounds, to 
        regulate the use thereof, and for other purposes'', approved 
        July 31, 1946 (2 U.S.C. 1961) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:
    ``(e) For purposes of this Act, `United States Capitol Buildings 
and Grounds' shall include the property transferred to the Architect of 
the Capitol under section 1202 of title I of division G of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-74).''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections for chapter 
        51 of title 40, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
        end the following:

``5110. Use of Union Square.''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2013''.
                                                       Calendar No. 486

112th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5882

                          [Report No. 112-197]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2013, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 11, 2012

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             August 2, 2012

                       Reported with an amendment
