
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1237 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

112th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 1237


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 24, 2012

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To provide for a land exchange with the Trinity Public Utilities 
District of Trinity County, California, involving the transfer of land 
to the Bureau of Land Management and the Six Rivers National Forest in 
exchange for National Forest System land in the Shasta-Trinity National 
                    Forest, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND EXCHANGE, TRINITY PUBLIC UTILITIES DISTRICT, TRINITY 
              COUNTY, CALIFORNIA, THE BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, AND 
              THE FOREST SERVICE.

    (a) Land Exchange Required.--If the Trinity Public Utilities 
District of Trinity County, California (in this section referred to as 
the ``Utilities District'') conveys to the Secretary of Agriculture all 
right, title, and interest of the Utilities District in and to the 
parcel of land described in subsection (b)(1) and conveys to the 
Secretary of the Interior all right, title, and interest of the 
Utilities District in and to the parcel of land described in subsection 
(b)(2), the Secretary of Agriculture shall convey to the Utilities 
District, in exchange, all right, title, and interest of the United 
States in and to a parcel of land in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest 
in the State of California consisting of approximately 100 acres near 
the Weaverville Airport in Trinity County.
    (b) Land To Be Acquired.--
            (1) Forest service acquisition.--The land to be acquired by 
        the Secretary of Agriculture under subsection (a) consists of 
        approximately 150 acres, known as the Van Duzen parcel, within 
        the boundaries of the Six Rivers National Forest.
            (2) BLM acquisition.--The land to be acquired by the 
        Secretary of the Interior under subsection (a) consists of 
        approximately 47 acres, known as the Sky Ranch parcel, adjacent 
        to public land administered by the Redding Field Office of the 
        Bureau of Land Management.
    (c) Availability of Maps and Legal Descriptions.--Any map prepared 
by the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of the Interior in 
connection with the land exchange required by subsection (a), and the 
legal description of the lands to be exchanged, shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of the 
Forest Service and the appropriate office of the Bureau of Land 
Management. With the agreement of the parties to a conveyance under 
subsection (a), the Secretary concerned may make technical corrections 
to the map and legal descriptions.
    (d) Land Exchange Process.--Section 206 of the Federal Land Policy 
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716) shall apply to the land 
conveyances under this section, except that--
            (1) if the value of the land described in paragraphs (1) 
        and (2) of subsection (b) is less than the value of the land to 
        be conveyed to the Utilities District, any cash equalization 
        payments received by the Secretaries shall be deposited in the 
        General Treasury; and
            (2) if the value of the land described in paragraphs (1) 
        and (2) of subsection (b) is greater than the value of the land 
        to be conveyed to the Utilities District, no cash equalization 
        payment may be made to the Utilities District and the acreage 
        of the land involved in the exchange may be adjusted to 
        equalize the value of the exchange.
    (e) Survey and Administrative Costs.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the land to be exchanged under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary concerned. The 
Utilities District shall be responsible for the costs of the survey and 
reasonable administrative costs related to the land exchange.
    (f) Management of Acquired Land.--
            (1) Forest service acquisition.--The land acquired by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture under subsection (a) shall be added to 
        and administered as part of the Six Rivers National Forest and 
        managed in accordance with the Act of March 1, 1911 (commonly 
        known as the Weeks Act; 16 U.S.C. 480 et seq.), and the laws 
        and regulations applicable to the National Forest System.
            (2) BLM acquisition.--The land acquired by the Secretary of 
        the Interior under subsection (a) shall be administered as 
        public land by the Redding Field Office of the Bureau of Land 
        Management in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and the laws 
        and regulations applicable to public land administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management.
    (g) Completion of Land Exchange.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall complete the conveyance of National Forest System land required 
by subsection (a) not later than one year after the date on which the 
Utilities District offers to make the conveyances to the Secretary of 
Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior described in such 
subsection.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 23, 2012.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
