
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 287 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 287

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          June 1, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 2017) making appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2012, and for other purposes. The first 
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the 
bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. After general 
debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. 
Points of order against provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 
2 of rule XXI are waived except for section 536. During consideration of the 
bill for amendment, the chair of the Committee of the Whole may accord priority 
in recognition on the basis of whether the Member offering an amendment has 
caused it to be printed in the portion of the Congressional Record designated 
for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so printed shall be 
considered as read. When the committee rises and reports the bill back to the 
House with a recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous question shall 
be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2. (a) Pending the adoption of a concurrent resolution on the budget 
for fiscal year 2012, the provisions of House Concurrent Resolution 34, as 
adopted by the House, shall have force and effect (with the modification 
specified in subsection (c)) in the House as though Congress has adopted such 
concurrent resolution. The allocations printed in the report of the Committee on 
Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered for all purposes in the 
House to be the allocations under section 302(a) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 for the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2012.
    (b) The chair of the Committee on the Budget shall adjust the allocations 
referred to in subsection (a) to accommodate the enactment of general or 
continuing appropriation Acts for fiscal year 2011 after the adoption of House 
Concurrent Resolution 34 but before the adoption of this resolution.
    (c) For provisions making appropriations for fiscal year 2011, section 3(c) 
of House Resolution 5 shall have force and effect through September 30, 2011.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
