
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 788 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 788

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 20, 2012.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 118) providing for 
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the 
rule submitted by the Office of Family Assistance of the Administration for 
Children and Families of the Department of Health and Human Services relating to 
waiver and expenditure authority under section 1115 of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1315) with respect to the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families 
program. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are 
waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided among and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means and the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education 
and the Workforce; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3409) to limit the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to 
issue regulations before December 31, 2013, under the Surface Mining Control and 
Reclamation Act of 1977. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and amendments specified in this resolution and 
shall not exceed one hour equally divided among and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources, the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment 
under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Natural Resources now printed in the 
bill, it shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of 
amendment under the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute 
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 112-32. That amendment in the 
nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed 
in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall 
rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment 
adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the 
nature of a substitute made in order as original text. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final 
passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day during the period from September 22, 2012, 
through November 12, 2012--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved;
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment; and
    (c) bills and resolutions introduced during the period addressed by this 
section shall be numbered, listed in the Congressional Record, and when printed 
shall bear the date of introduction, but may be referred by the Speaker at a 
later time.
    Sec. 4.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 5.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the 
War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1546).
    Sec. 6.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of 
rule XIII.
    Sec. 7.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar or legislative day for purposes of 
clause 7(c)(1) of rule XXII.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
