
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 534 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 534

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      February 2, 2012.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3578) to amend the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to reform the budget baseline. All points 
of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on the Budget now 
printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of 
the text of the Rules Committee Print 112-9 dated January 25, 2012, shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on the Budget; (2) the further 
amendment printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying 
this resolution, if offered by Representative Jackson Lee of Texas or her 
designee, which shall be in order without intervention of any point of order, 
shall be considered as read, shall be separately debatable for 10 minutes 
equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question; and (3) one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3582) to amend the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to provide for 
macroeconomic analysis of the impact of legislation. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on the Budget. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in 
the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on the Budget now 
printed in the bill, it shall be in order to consider as an original bill for 
the purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute consisting of the text of the Rules Committee Print 112-10 dated 
January 25, 2012. That amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against that amendment in the nature of 
a substitute are waived. No amendment to that amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be in order except those printed in part B of the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be 
offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 
the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion 
of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report 
the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member 
may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the 
Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute made in order as original text. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
