
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 836 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 836


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 14, 2011

Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
                           and Urban Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To rescind the unobligated funding for the Emergency Mortgage Relief 
                 Program and to terminate the program.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Mortgage Relief Program 
Termination Act''.

SEC. 2. RESCISSION OF FUNDING FOR EMERGENCY MORTGAGE RELIEF PROGRAM.

    Effective on the date of the enactment of this Act, there are 
rescinded and permanently canceled all unobligated balances remaining 
available as of such date of enactment of the amounts made available by 
section 1496(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act (Public Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 2207; 12 U.S.C. 2706 
note). All such unobligated balances so rescinded and permanently 
canceled shall be retained in the general fund of the Treasury for 
reducing the debt of the Federal Government.

SEC. 3. TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY MORTGAGE RELIEF PROGRAM.

    (a) Repeal.--Title I of the Emergency Housing Act of 1975 (12 
U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), as amended by section 1496(b) of the Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, is hereby repealed.
    (b) Treatment of Remaining Funds.--Notwithstanding the repeal under 
subsection (a) of this section, any amounts made available under the 
provision specified in section 2 of this Act and obligated before the 
date of the enactment of this Act shall continue to be governed by the 
provisions of law specified in subsection (a) of this section, as in 
effect immediately before such repeal.
    (c) Termination.--Upon the completion of outlays to liquidate all 
amounts referred to in subsection (b) of this section and the 
completion of all activities with respect to such amounts under the 
provisions of law specified in subsection (a) of this section, the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall terminate the 
Emergency Mortgage Relief Program authorized under the provisions 
specified in subsection (a).
    (d) Study of Use of Program by Members of the Armed Forces, 
Veterans, Gold Star Recipients, and Members and Veterans With Service-
connected Disabilities and Their Families.--
            (1) Study.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
        shall conduct a study to determine the extent of usage of the 
        Emergency Mortgage Relief Program authorized under the 
        provisions specified in subsection (a) by, and the impact of 
        such program on, covered homeowners.
            (2) Report.--Not later than the expiration of the 90-day 
        period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report setting forth 
        the results of the study under paragraph (1) and identifying 
        best practices, with respect to covered homeowners, that could 
        be applied to the Emergency Mortgage Relief Program.
            (3) Covered homeowner.--For purposes of this subsection, 
        the term ``covered homeowner'' means a homeowner who is--
                    (A) a member of the Armed Forces of the United 
                States on active duty or the spouse or parent of such a 
                member;
                    (B) a veteran, as such term is defined in section 
                101 of title 38, United States Code;
                    (C) eligible to receive a Gold Star lapel pin under 
                section 1126 of title 10, United States Code, as a 
                widow, parent, or next of kin of a member of the Armed 
                Forces person who died in a manner described in 
                subsection (a) of such section; or
                    (D) such members and veterans of the Armed Forces 
                who have service-connected injuries, and survivors and 
                dependents of such 


              

                members and veterans of the Armed Forces with such 
                injuries.

            Passed the House of Representatives March 11, 2011.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
