
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 631 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 631

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        April 26, 2012.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3523) to provide for the sharing of certain cyber threat intelligence 
and cyber threat information between the intelligence community and 
cybersecurity entities, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Permanent Select 
Committee on Intelligence now printed in the bill, it shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules 
Committee Print 112-20. That amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against that amendment in the nature of 
a substitute are waived. No amendment to that amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be in order except those printed in the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only 
in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated 
in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time 
specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an 
opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a 
demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion 
of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report 
the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member 
may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the 
Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute made in order as original text. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2.  It shall be in order at any time through the legislative day of 
April 27, 2012, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the 
rules, as though under clause 1 of rule XV, relating to the following measures:
     (a) The bill (H.R. 2096) to advance cybersecurity research, development, 
and technical standards, and for other purposes.
    (b) The bill (H.R. 3834) to amend the High-Performance Computing Act of 1991 
to authorize activities for support of networking and information technology 
research, and for other purposes.
    (c) The bill (H.R. 4257) to amend chapter 35 of title 44, United States 
Code, to revise requirements relating to Federal information security, and for 
other purposes.
    Sec. 3.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4628) to extend student loan interest rates 
for undergraduate Federal Direct Stafford Loans. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and any amendment thereto to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 4.  The Committee on Appropriations may, at any time before 6 p.m. on 
Wednesday, May 2, 2012, file privileged reports to accompany measures making 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2013.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
