
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 68 Introduced in House (IH)]

112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. J. RES. 68

   Authorizing the limited use of the United States Armed Forces in 
                 support of the NATO mission in Libya.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 22, 2011

  Mr. Hastings of Florida introduced the following joint resolution; 
which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition 
  to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
   Authorizing the limited use of the United States Armed Forces in 
                 support of the NATO mission in Libya.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. AUTHORIZATION FOR THE LIMITED USE OF UNITED STATES ARMED 
              FORCES IN LIBYA.

    (a) Authority.--The President is authorized to continue the limited 
use of the United States Armed Forces in Libya, in support of United 
States national security policy interests, as part of the NATO mission 
to enforce United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973 (2011) as 
requested by the Transitional National Council, the Gulf Cooperation 
Council, and the Arab League.
    (b) Expiration of Authority.--The authorization for such limited 
use of United States Armed Forces in Libya expires one year after the 
date of the enactment of this joint resolution.

SEC. 2. OPPOSITION TO THE USE OF UNITED STATES GROUND TROOPS.

    Consistent with the policy and statements of the President, 
Congress does not support deploying, establishing, or maintaining the 
presence of units and members of the United States Armed Forces on the 
ground in Libya unless the purpose of the presence is limited to the 
immediate personal defense of United States Government officials 
(including diplomatic representatives) or to rescuing members of NATO 
forces from imminent danger.

SEC. 3. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

    The President shall consult frequently with Congress regarding 
United States efforts in Libya, including by providing regular 
briefings and reports as requested, and responding to inquiries 
promptly. Such briefings and reports shall include the following 
elements:
            (1) An updated description of United States national 
        security interests in Libya.
            (2) An updated statement of United States policy objectives 
        in Libya, both during and after Qaddafi's rule, and a detailed 
        plan to achieve them.
            (3) An updated and comprehensive list of the activities of 
        the United States Armed Forces in Libya.
            (4) An updated and detailed assessment of the groups in 
        Libya that are opposed to the Qaddafi regime, including 
        potential successor governments.
            (5) A full and updated explanation of the President's legal 
        and constitutional rationale for conducting military operations 
        in Libya consistent with the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 
        1541 et seq.).
                                 <all>
