
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 537 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 537

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      February 6, 2012.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1734) to decrease the deficit by realigning, consolidating, selling, 
disposing, and improving the efficiency of Federal buildings and other civilian 
real property, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. After general debate the 
bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of 
the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure now printed in the bill, an amendment in the 
nature of a substitute consisting of the text of the Rules Committee Print 112-
11 shall be considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the 
Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as the original bill for the 
purpose of further amendment under the five-minute rule and shall be considered 
as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are 
waived. No further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order except 
those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution. Each such further amendment may be offered only in the order printed 
in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall 
be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report 
equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be 
subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order 
against such further amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration 
of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill, as 
amended, to the House with such further amendments as may have been adopted. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and 
any further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except 
one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
