
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 218 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 218

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        April 13, 2011.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1473) making appropriations for the 
Department of Defense and the other departments and agencies of the Government 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2011, and for other purposes. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2. (a) If H.R. 1473 is passed by the House, it shall be in order to 
consider separately in the House the concurrent resolutions specified in 
subsection (b). All points of order against consideration of each concurrent 
resolution are waived. Each concurrent resolution shall be considered read. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on each concurrent resolution 
to final adoption without intervening motion except 20 minutes of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations.
    (b) The concurrent resolutions specified in subsection (a) are as follows:
            (1) the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 35) directing the Clerk 
        of the House of Representatives to make a correction in the enrollment 
        of H.R. 1473; and
            (2) the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 36) directing the Clerk 
        of the House of Representatives to make a correction in the enrollment 
        of H.R. 1473.
    Sec. 3.  If the House receives a message from the Senate transmitting its 
passage of H.R. 1473 without amendment, then the Clerk shall not certify an 
enrollment of the bill until notified by the Speaker or by message from the 
Senate that the Senate has taken the question on adoption of each concurrent 
resolution specified in section 2 that was adopted by the House.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
