
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 448 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 448

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      October 26, 2011.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2576) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to modify the calculation of modified adjusted gross income for purposes of 
determining eligibility for certain healthcare-related programs. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered 
as read. All points of order against provisions of the bill are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 674) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to repeal the imposition of 3 percent withholding on certain payments made 
to vendors by government entities. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. The amendment printed in the report of the Committee on 
Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as 
amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions of 
the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3. (a) In the engrossment of H.R. 674, the Clerk shall--
            (1) add the text of H.R. 2576, as passed by the House, as new matter 
        at the end of H.R. 674;
            (2) conform the title of H.R. 674 to reflect the addition of the 
        text of H.R. 2576, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;
            (3) assign appropriate designations to provisions within the 
        engrossment; and
            (4) conform provisions for short titles within the engrossment.
    (b) Upon the addition of the text of H.R. 2576, as passed by the House, to 
the engrossment of H.R. 674, H.R. 2576 shall be laid on the table.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
