
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1721 Considered and Passed Senate (CPS)]

112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1721

     To amend section 402 of the Personal Responsibility and Work 
Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 to extend the eligibility period 
 for supplemental security income benefits for refugees, asylees, and 
     certain other humanitarian immigrants, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 17, 2011

Mr. Schumer (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Menendez, Mr. 
 Franken, and Ms. Klobuchar) introduced the following bill; which was 
        read twice, considered, read the third time, and passed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To amend section 402 of the Personal Responsibility and Work 
Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 to extend the eligibility period 
 for supplemental security income benefits for refugees, asylees, and 
     certain other humanitarian immigrants, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``SSI Extension for Elderly and 
Disabled Refugees Act of 2011''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF ELIGIBILITY PERIOD FOR SSI BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN 
              RECIPIENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 402(a)(2)(M) of the Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 
U.S.C. 1612(a)(2)(M)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i)(I), by striking ``fiscal years 2009 
        through 2011'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2009 through 
        2012''; and
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``fiscal years 2009 through 
        2011'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2009 through 2012''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 402(a)(2)(M) of such Act is 
amended, in the subparagraph heading, by striking ``through fiscal year 
2011''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2011.

SEC. 3. DIVERSITY IMMIGRANT VISA PETITION FEE.

    (a) Requirement for Fee.--Section 204(a)(1)(I) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1154(a)(1)(I)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(iv) Each petition filed under this subparagraph shall include a 
petition fee in the amount of $30.''.
    (b) Deposit of Fee.--All fees collected pursuant to clause (iv) of 
section 204(a)(1)(I) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1154(a)(1)(I)), as added by subsection (a), shall not be available for 
obligation and shall be deposited, in their entirety, in the general 
fund of the Treasury.
    (c) Sunset of Fees.--The fees collected pursuant to clause (iv) of 
section 204(a)(1)(I) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1154(a)(1)(I)), as added by subsection (a), shall apply only to 
petitions filed before October 1, 2013.

SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
                                 <all>
