
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 493 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 493

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     December 14, 2011.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider the conference report to accompany the bill (H.R. 1540) to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2012 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and 
for other purposes. All points of order against the conference report and 
against its consideration are waived. The conference report shall be considered 
as read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the conference 
report to its adoption without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate; and (2) one motion to recommit if applicable.
    Sec. 2.  It shall be in order at any time through the remainder of the first 
session of the One Hundred Twelfth Congress for the Speaker to entertain motions 
that the House suspend the rules, as though under clause 1(c) of rule XV, if the 
text of the measure proposed in a motion is made available to Members, 
Delegates, and the Resident Commissioner (including pursuant to clause 3 of rule 
XXIX) on the calendar day before consideration.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day of the first session of the One Hundred 
Twelfth Congress after December 16, 2011--
            (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be 
        considered as approved;
            (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at 
        a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of 
        the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the 
        adjournment; and
            (c) bills and resolutions introduced during the period addressed by 
        this section shall be numbered, listed in the Congressional Record, and 
        when printed shall bear the date of introduction, but may be referred by 
        the Speaker at a later time.
    Sec. 4.  On any legislative day of the second session of the One Hundred 
Twelfth Congress before January 17, 2012--
            (a) the Speaker may dispense with organizational and legislative 
        business;
            (b) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be 
        considered as approved if applicable; and
            (c) the Chair at any time may declare the House adjourned to meet at 
        a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of 
        the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the 
        adjournment.
    Sec. 5.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by sections 3 and 4 as though under 
clause 8(a) of rule I.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
