
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 643 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 643

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                           May 8, 2012.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5326) making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce and 
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2013, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed 
with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General 
debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. Points of order against provisions in the 
bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are waived. During 
consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair of the Committee of the Whole 
may accord priority in recognition on the basis of whether the Member offering 
an amendment has caused it to be printed in the portion of the Congressional 
Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so 
printed shall be considered as read. When the committee rises and reports the 
bill back to the House with a recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  House Resolution 614 is amended in section 2(a) by inserting ``and 
the allocations of spending authority printed in Tables 11 and 12 of House 
Report 112-421 shall be considered for all purposes in the House to be the 
allocations under section 302(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974'' 
before the period.
    Sec. 3.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported on May 10, 2012, 
providing for consideration or disposition of any measure reported by the 
Committee on the Budget relating to section 201 of House Concurrent Resolution 
112.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
