
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 49 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 49

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      January 25, 2011.
    Resolved,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This resolution may be cited as the ``Staff Sergeant Salvatore A. Giunta 
Medal of Honor Flag Resolution''.

SEC. 2. PROVIDING CAPITOL-FLOWN FLAGS FOR RECIPIENTS OF MEDAL OF HONOR.

    (a) In General.--At the request of a recipient of the Medal of Honor or an 
immediate family member of a recipient of the Medal of Honor, the Representative 
of the recipient or the Representative of the family member (as the case may be) 
may provide the recipient or the family member with a Capitol-flown flag, 
together with the certificate described in subsection (c), except that not more 
than one flag may be provided under this resolution with respect to the Medal of 
Honor recipient involved.
    (b) No Cost to Family.--A flag provided under this section shall be provided 
at no cost to the individual receiving the flag.
    (c) Certificate Described.--The certificate described in this subsection is 
a certificate which is signed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and 
the Representative providing the flag, and which reads as follows: ``This flag 
has been flown over the United States Capitol, in honor of the service and 
sacrifice of recipients of the Medal of Honor, the highest honor awarded to 
members of the Armed Forces for valor in combat, with profound gratitude on 
behalf of the United States House of Representatives.''.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Capitol-flown flag'' means a United States flag flown 
        over the United States Capitol in honor of the Medal of Honor recipient 
        involved; and
            (2) the term ``Representative'' includes a Delegate or Resident 
        Commissioner to the Congress.

SEC. 3. REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the date of the 
adoption of this resolution, the Clerk of the House of Representatives shall 
issue regulations for carrying out this resolution, including regulations to 
establish procedures (including any appropriate forms, guidelines, and 
accompanying certificates) for requesting a Capitol-flown flag.
    (b) Approval by Committee on House Administration.--The regulations issued 
by the Clerk under subsection (a) shall take effect upon approval by the 
Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
