
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5854 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 421
112th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5854


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 5, 2012

            Received; read twice and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  Making appropriations for military construction, the Department of 
   Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2013, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, 
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for military construction, the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2013, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Army as currently authorized by 
law, including personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other 
personal services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and 
for construction and operation of facilities in support of the 
functions of the Commander in Chief, $1,820,323,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017: Provided, That of this amount, not 
to exceed $80,173,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, 
architect and engineer services, and host nation support, as authorized 
by law, unless the Secretary of Army determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps as currently authorized 
by law, including personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command 
and other personal services necessary for the purposes of this 
appropriation, $1,551,217,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2017: Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $102,619,000 shall 
be available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Navy determines 
that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
the determination and the reasons therefor.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized 
by law, $388,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017: 
Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $18,635,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Air Force 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and 
real property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$3,569,623,000 (reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000), to 
remain available until September 30, 2017: Provided, That such amounts 
of this appropriation as may be determined by the Secretary of Defense 
may be transferred to such appropriations of the Department of Defense 
available for military construction or family housing as the Secretary 
may designate, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation or fund to 
which transferred: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, 
not to exceed $315,562,000 (increased by $10,000,000) shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor: Provided 
further, That, of the amount appropriated, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, $26,969,000 shall be available for payments to the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization for the planning, design, and 
construction of a new North Atlantic Treaty Organization headquarters.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by law, 
$613,799,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017: Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed $26,622,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Director of the Army 
National Guard determines that additional obligations are necessary for 
such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by law, 
$42,386,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017: Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Director of the Air National 
Guard determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army Reserve as authorized by law, $305,846,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017: Provided, That of the amount appropriated, 
not to exceed $15,951,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Chief of the Army Reserve determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Navy Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by law, 
$49,532,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017: Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed $2,118,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Navy 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by law, $10,979,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017: Provided, That of the amount appropriated, 
not to exceed $2,879,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Chief of the Air Force Reserve determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                      Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations (including 
international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the 
collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized by 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $254,163,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Family Housing Construction, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $4,641,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017.

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $530,051,000.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, $102,182,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017.

    Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, 
as authorized by law, $378,230,000.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $83,824,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017.

          Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $497,829,000.

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
operation and maintenance, leasing, and minor construction, as 
authorized by law, $52,238,000.

         Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund, 
$1,786,000, to remain available until expended, for family housing 
initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, United 
States Code, providing alternative means of acquiring and improving 
military family housing and supporting facilities.

          Chemical Demilitarization Construction, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of construction, not otherwise provided for, necessary 
for the destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical 
agents and munitions in accordance with section 1412 of the Department 
of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for the 
destruction of other chemical warfare materials that are not in the 
chemical weapon stockpile, as currently authorized by law, 
$151,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, which shall 
be only for the Assembled Chemical Weapons Alternatives program.

            Department of Defense Base Closure Account 1990

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 
1990, established by section 2906(a)(1) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), $349,396,000, to remain 
available until expended.

            Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 
2005, established by section 2906A(a)(1) of the Defense Base Closure 
and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), $126,697,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the Department of 
Defense shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress 14 days prior to obligating an amount for a construction 
project that exceeds or reduces the amount identified for that project 
in the most recently submitted budget request for this account by 20 
percent or $2,000,000, whichever is less: Provided further, That the 
previous proviso shall not apply to projects costing less than 
$5,000,000, except for those projects not previously identified in any 
budget submission for this account and exceeding the minor construction 
threshold under section 2805 of title 10, United States Code.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for 
construction, where cost estimates exceed $25,000, to be performed 
within the United States, except Alaska, without the specific approval 
in writing of the Secretary of Defense setting forth the reasons 
therefor.
    Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for construction 
shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103.  Funds made available in this title for construction may 
be used for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department 
of Transportation, for the construction of access roads as authorized 
by section 210 of title 23, United States Code, when projects 
authorized therein are certified as important to the national defense 
by the Secretary of Defense.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to begin construction of new bases in the United States for which 
specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used for purchase of land or land easements in excess of 100 percent of 
the value as determined by the Army Corps of Engineers or the Naval 
Facilities Engineering Command, except: (1) where there is a 
determination of value by a Federal court; (2) purchases negotiated by 
the Attorney General or the designee of the Attorney General; (3) where 
the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site preparation; or (3) 
install utilities for any family housing, except housing for which 
funds have been made available in annual Acts making appropriations for 
military construction.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this title for minor 
construction may be used to transfer or relocate any activity from one 
base or installation to another, without prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used for the procurement of steel for any construction project or 
activity for which American steel producers, fabricators, and 
manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to compete for such 
steel procurement.
    Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to initiate a new installation overseas without prior notification 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated for architect and engineer contracts estimated by the 
Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to be accomplished in Japan, 
in any North Atlantic Treaty Organization member country, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Sea, unless such contracts are awarded 
to United States firms or United States firms in joint venture with 
host nation firms.
    Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this title for 
military construction in the United States territories and possessions 
in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in countries within the 
United States Central Command Area of Responsibility, may be used to 
award any contract estimated by the Government to exceed $1,000,000 to 
a foreign contractor: Provided, That this section shall not be 
applicable to contract awards for which the lowest responsive and 
responsible bid of a United States contractor exceeds the lowest 
responsive and responsible bid of a foreign contractor by greater than 
20 percent: Provided further, That this section shall not apply to 
contract awards for military construction on Kwajalein Atoll for which 
the lowest responsive and responsible bid is submitted by a Marshallese 
contractor.
    Sec. 113.  The Secretary of Defense shall inform the appropriate 
committees of both Houses of Congress, including the Committees on 
Appropriations, of plans and scope of any proposed military exercise 
involving United States personnel 30 days prior to its occurring, if 
amounts expended for construction, either temporary or permanent, are 
anticipated to exceed $100,000.
    Sec. 114.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 115.  For military construction or family housing projects 
that are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
made available to a military department or defense agency for the 
construction of military projects may be obligated for a military 
construction project or contract, or for any portion of such a project 
or contract, at any time before the end of the fourth fiscal year after 
the fiscal year for which funds for such project were made available, 
if the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated from funds 
available for military construction projects; and (2) do not exceed the 
amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount by which the cost 
of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 117.  In addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense, proceeds deposited to the Department of 
Defense Base Closure Account established by section 207(a)(1) of the 
Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and Realignment Act 
(10 U.S.C. 2687 note) pursuant to section 207(a)(2)(C) of such Act, may 
be transferred to the account established by section 2906(a)(1) of the 
Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), 
to be merged with, and to be available for the same purposes and the 
same time period as that account.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118.  Subject to 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a 
notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 
and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, such additional amounts as 
may be determined by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to: 
(1) the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from 
amounts appropriated for construction in ``Family Housing'' accounts, 
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the 
same period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund; or 
(2) the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing 
Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for construction of military 
unaccompanied housing in ``Military Construction'' accounts, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund: Provided, 
That appropriations made available to the Funds shall be available to 
cover the costs, as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, of direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the 
Department of Defense pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of 
chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, pertaining to alternative 
means of acquiring and improving military family housing, military 
unaccompanied housing, and supporting facilities.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 119.  In addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense, amounts may be transferred from the accounts 
established by sections 2906(a)(1) and 2906A(a)(1) of the Defense Base 
Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), to the fund 
established by section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and 
Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for 
expenses associated with the Homeowners Assistance Program incurred 
under 42 U.S.C. 3374(a)(1)(A). Any amounts transferred shall be merged 
with and be available for the same purposes and for the same time 
period as the fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 120.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this title for operation and maintenance of family housing 
shall be the exclusive source of funds for repair and maintenance of 
all family housing units, including general or flag officer quarters: 
Provided, That not more than $35,000 per unit may be spent annually for 
the maintenance and repair of any general or flag officer quarters 
without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a notification 
provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 and 2883 of 
title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress, except that an after-the-fact notification 
shall be submitted if the limitation is exceeded solely due to costs 
associated with environmental remediation that could not be reasonably 
anticipated at the time of the budget submission.
    Sec. 121.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island Improvement Account 
established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of title 10, United 
States Code, are appropriated and shall be available until expended for 
the purposes specified in subsection (i)(1) of such section or until 
transferred pursuant to subsection (i)(3) of such section.
    Sec. 122.  None of the funds made available in this title, or in 
any Act making appropriations for military construction which remain 
available for obligation, may be obligated or expended to carry out a 
military construction, land acquisition, or family housing project at 
or for a military installation approved for closure, or at a military 
installation for the purposes of supporting a function that has been 
approved for realignment to another installation, in 2005 under the 
Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX 
of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note), unless such a project at a 
military installation approved for realignment will support a 
continuing mission or function at that installation or a new mission or 
function that is planned for that installation, or unless the Secretary 
of Defense certifies that the cost to the United States of carrying out 
such project would be less than the cost to the United States of 
cancelling such project, or if the project is at an active component 
base that shall be established as an enclave or in the case of projects 
having multi-agency use, that another Government agency has indicated 
it will assume ownership of the completed project. The Secretary of 
Defense may not transfer funds made available as a result of this 
limitation from any military construction project, land acquisition, or 
family housing project to another account or use such funds for another 
purpose or project without the prior approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress. This section shall not apply 
to military construction projects, land acquisition, or family housing 
projects for which the project is vital to the national security or the 
protection of health, safety, or environmental quality: Provided, That 
the Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense 
committees within seven days of a decision to carry out such a military 
construction project.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 123.  During the 5-year period after appropriations available 
in this Act to the Department of Defense for military construction and 
family housing operation and maintenance and construction have expired 
for obligation, upon a determination that such appropriations will not 
be necessary for the liquidation of obligations or for making 
authorized adjustments to such appropriations for obligations incurred 
during the period of availability of such appropriations, unobligated 
balances of such appropriations may be transferred into the 
appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Construction, Defense'', 
to be merged with and to be available for the same time period and for 
the same purposes as the appropriation to which transferred.
    Sec. 124.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of Defense to take beneficial occupancy of more than 
2,000 parking spaces (other than handicap-reserved spaces) to be 
provided by the BRAC 133 project: Provided, That this limitation may be 
waived in part if: (1) the Secretary of Defense certifies to Congress 
that levels of service at existing intersections in the vicinity of the 
project have not experienced failing levels of service as defined by 
the Transportation Research Board Highway Capacity Manual over a 
consecutive 90-day period; (2) the Department of Defense and the 
Virginia Department of Transportation agree on the number of additional 
parking spaces that may be made available to employees of the facility 
subject to continued 90-day traffic monitoring; and (3) the Secretary 
of Defense notifies the congressional defense committees in writing at 
least 14 days prior to exercising this waiver of the number of 
additional parking spaces to be made available.
    Sec. 125.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for any action that relates to or promotes the expansion of the 
boundaries or size of the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site, Colorado.
    Sec. 126. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available in this Act may be used by the Secretary of the 
Army to relocate a unit in the Army that--
            (1) performs a testing mission or function that is not 
        performed by any other unit in the Army and is specifically 
        stipulated in title 10, United States Code; and
            (2) is located at a military installation at which the 
        total number of civilian employees of the Department of the 
        Army and Army contractor personnel employed exceeds 10 percent 
        of the total number of members of the regular and reserve 
        components of the Army assigned to the installation.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of 
the Army certifies to the congressional defense committees that in 
proposing the relocation of the unit of the Army, the Secretary 
complied with Army Regulation 5-10 relating to the policy, procedures, 
and responsibilities for Army stationing actions.

                    (including rescission of funds)

    Sec. 127.  Of the unobligated balances available for ``Military 
Construction, Defense-Wide'', from prior appropriations Acts, 
$20,000,000 are hereby cancelled: Provided, That no amounts may be 
cancelled from amounts that were designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement or for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    (including rescission of funds)

    Sec. 128.  Of the unobligated balances available for ``Department 
of Defense Base Closure Account 2005'', from prior appropriations Acts, 
$212,291,000 are hereby cancelled: Provided, That no amounts may be 
cancelled from amounts that were designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement or for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    Sec. 129.  The total amount available in this Act for pay for 
civilian personnel of the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2013 
shall be the amount otherwise appropriated or made available by this 
Act for such pay reduced by $2,334,000.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 130.  Of the proceeds credited to the Department of Defense 
Family Housing Improvement Fund pursuant to subsection (c)(1)(C) of 
section 2883 of title 10, United States Code, from a Department of Navy 
land conveyance, the Secretary of Defense shall transfer $10,500,000 to 
the Secretary of the Navy under paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of such 
section for use by the Secretary of the Navy as provided in paragraph 
(1) of such subsection until expended.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized 
by section 107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, 
United States Code; pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as 
authorized by chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United 
States Code; and burial benefits, the Reinstated Entitlement Program 
for Survivors, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-
service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial 
life insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of title IV of 
the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et seq.) and 
for other benefits as authorized by sections 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, 
and chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$61,741,232,000 (reduced by $1) (increased by $1), to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $9,204,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be reimbursed to ``General 
operating expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', ``Medical 
support and compliance'', and ``Information technology systems'' for 
necessary expenses in implementing the provisions of chapters 51, 53, 
and 55 of title 38, United States Code, the funding source for which is 
specifically provided as the ``Compensation and pensions'' 
appropriation: Provided further, That such sums as may be earned on an 
actual qualifying patient basis, shall be reimbursed to ``Medical care 
collections fund'' to augment the funding of individual medical 
facilities for nursing home care provided to pensioners as authorized.

                         readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or 
on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 
36, 39, 41, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, and for 
the payment of benefits under the Veterans Retraining Assistance 
Program, $12,607,476,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That expenses for rehabilitation program services and assistance which 
the Secretary is authorized to provide under subsection (a) of section 
3104 of title 38, United States Code, other than under paragraphs (1), 
(2), (5), and (11) of that subsection, shall be charged to this 
account.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by chapters 19 and 21, 
title 38, United States Code, $104,600,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                 veterans housing benefit program fund

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by subchapters I 
through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code: Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2013, within the resources 
available, not to exceed $500,000 in gross obligations for direct loans 
are authorized for specially adapted housing loans.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $157,814,000.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $19,000, as authorized by chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code: Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$2,729,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $346,000, which may be paid to the appropriation 
for ``General operating expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, United States 
Code, $1,089,000.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

    For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by law, 
inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and veterans described in section 
1705(a) of title 38, United States Code, including care and treatment 
in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department, and 
including medical supplies and equipment, bioengineering services, food 
services, and salaries and expenses of health care employees hired 
under title 38, United States Code, aid to State homes as authorized by 
section 1741 of title 38, United States Code, assistance and support 
services for caregivers as authorized by section 1720G of title 38, 
United States Code, and loan repayments authorized by section 604 of 
the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public 
Law 111-163; 124 Stat. 1174; 38 U.S.C. 7681 note); $43,557,000,000 
(reduced by $16,000,000) (increased by $16,000,000), plus 
reimbursements, shall become available on October 1, 2013, and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2014: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall establish a priority for the provision of medical 
treatment for veterans who have service-connected disabilities, lower 
income, or have special needs: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
give priority funding for the provision of basic medical benefits to 
veterans in enrollment priority groups 1 through 6: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs may authorize the dispensing of prescription drugs 
from Veterans Health Administration facilities to enrolled veterans 
with privately written prescriptions based on requirements established 
by the Secretary: Provided further, That the implementation of the 
program described in the previous proviso shall incur no additional 
cost to the Department of Veterans Affairs.

                     medical support and compliance

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
capital policy activities; and administrative and legal expenses of the 
Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed the Department as 
authorized under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, and the 
Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.); 
$6,033,000,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available on October 
1, 2013, and shall remain available until September 30, 2014.

                           medical facilities

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, domiciliary facilities, and other necessary 
facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; for administrative 
expenses in support of planning, design, project management, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction, and renovation of 
any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; 
for oversight, engineering, and architectural activities not charged to 
project costs; for repairing, altering, improving, or providing 
facilities in the several hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of 
the Department, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by 
the hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; for leases 
of facilities; and for laundry services, $4,872,000,000, plus 
reimbursements, shall become available on October 1, 2013, and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2014.

                    medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by chapter 73 of 
title 38, United States Code, $582,674,000 (reduced by $35,000,000) 
(increased by $35,000,000), plus reimbursements, shall remain available 
until September 30, 2014.

                    National Cemetery Administration

    For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery Administration for 
operations and maintenance, not otherwise provided for, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as authorized by 
law; purchase of one passenger motor vehicle for use in cemeterial 
operations; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, alteration or 
improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the National 
Cemetery Administration, $258,284,000, of which not to exceed 
$25,828,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2014: Provided, 
That none of the funds under this heading may be used to expand the 
Urban Initiative project beyond those sites outlined in the fiscal year 
2012 or previous budget submissions or any other rural strategy, other 
than the Rural Initiative included in the fiscal year 2013 budget 
submission, until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs submits to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a strategy to 
serve the burial needs of veterans residing in rural and highly rural 
areas and that strategy has been approved by the Committees: Provided 
further, That the strategy shall include: (1) A review of previous 
policies of the National Cemetery Administration regarding 
establishment of new national cemeteries, including whether the 
guidelines of the Administration for establishing national cemetery 
annexes remain valid; (2) Data identifying the number of and geographic 
areas where rural veterans are not currently served by national or 
existing State cemeteries and identification of areas with the largest 
unserved populations, broken down by veterans residing in urban versus 
rural and highly rural; (3) Identification of the number of veterans 
who reside within the 75-mile radius of a cemetery that is limited to 
cremations or of a State cemetery which has residency restrictions, as 
well as an examination of how many communities that fall under a 75-
mile radius have an actual driving distance greater than 75 miles; (4) 
Reassessment of the gaps in service, factoring in the above conditions 
that limit rural and highly rural veteran burial options; (5) An 
assessment of the adequacy of the policy of the Administration on 
establishing new cemeteries proposed in the fiscal year 2013 budget 
request; (6) Recommendations for an appropriate policy on new national 
cemeteries to serve rural or highly rural areas; (7) Development of a 
national map showing the locations and number of all unserved veterans; 
and (8) A time line for the implementation of such strategy and cost 
estimates for using the strategy to establish new burial sites in at 
least five rural or highly rural locations: Provided further, That the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall review the strategy to 
ensure that it includes the elements listed above prior to the 
submission of the report by the Secretary: Provided further, That this 
strategy shall be submitted no later 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

                      Departmental Administration

                         general administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including administrative expenses 
in support of Department-Wide capital planning, management and policy 
activities, uniforms, or allowances therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, $416,737,000, of which not to exceed 
$20,837,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2014: Provided, 
That funds provided under this heading may be transferred to ``General 
operating expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'': Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading, such sums 
as may be necessary shall be available to the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to comply with the Department's energy management requirements 
under section 543(f)(7) of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act 
(42 U.S.C. 8253(f)(7)).

      general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration

    For necessary operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, including hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, reimbursement of the General Services Administration 
for security guard services, and reimbursement of the Department of 
Defense for the cost of overseas employee mail, $2,164,074,000: 
Provided, That expenses for services and assistance authorized under 
paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) of section 3104(a) of title 38, 
United States Code, that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines 
are necessary to enable entitled veterans: (1) to the maximum extent 
feasible, to become employable and to obtain and maintain suitable 
employment; or (2) to achieve maximum independence in daily living, 
shall be charged to this account: Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, not to exceed $113,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2014.

                     information technology systems

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for information technology systems and 
telecommunications support, including developmental information systems 
and operational information systems; for pay and associated costs; and 
for the capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, 
including management and related contractual costs of said 
acquisitions, including contractual costs associated with operations 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$3,327,444,000, plus reimbursements: Provided, That $1,021,000,000 
shall be for pay and associated costs, of which not to exceed three 
percent of this amount shall remain available until September 30, 2014: 
Provided further, That $1,812,045,000 shall be for operations and 
maintenance, of which not to exceed seven percent of this amount shall 
remain available until September 30, 2014: Provided further, That 
$494,399,000 shall be for information technology systems development, 
modernization, and enhancement, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2014: Provided further, That amounts made available for 
information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement may not be obligated or expended until the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs or the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress a certification of the amounts, in parts or in full, 
to be obligated and expended for each development project: Provided 
further, That amounts made available for salaries and expenses, 
operations and maintenance, and information technology systems 
development, modernization, and enhancement may be transferred among 
the three subaccounts after the Secretary of Veterans Affairs requests 
from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued: Provided 
further, That amounts made available for the ``Information technology 
systems'' account for development, modernization, and enhancement may 
be transferred between projects or to newly defined projects: Provided 
further, That no project may be increased or decreased by more than 
$1,000,000 of cost prior to submitting a request to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress to make the transfer and an 
approval is issued, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has 
elapsed: Provided further, That the funds made available under this 
heading for information technology systems development, modernization, 
and enhancement, shall be for the projects, and in the amounts, 
specified under this heading in the report accompanying this Act: 
Provided further, That of the funds provided to develop an integrated 
Department of Defense -Department of Veterans Affairs (DOD-VA) 
integrated health record, not more than twenty-five percent shall be 
available for obligation until the DOD-VA Interagency Program Office 
submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
a completed fiscal year 2013 execution and spending plan and a long-
term roadmap for the life of the project that includes, but is not 
limited to, the following: (a) annual and total spending for each 
Department; (b) a quarterly schedule of milestones for each Department 
over the life of the project; (c) detailed cost-sharing business rules; 
and (d) data standardization schedules between the Departments.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, to 
include information technology, in carrying out the provisions of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $113,000,000 (reduced by 
$1) (increased by $1), of which $6,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2014.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or for any of the 
purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406, and chapter 81 of title 
38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, including planning, 
architectural and engineering services, construction management 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
more than the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, 
United States Code, or where funds for a project were made available in 
a previous major project appropriation, $532,470,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017, of which $5,000,000 shall be to 
make reimbursements as provided in section 7108 of title 41, United 
States Code, for claims paid for contract disputes: Provided, That 
except for advance planning activities, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and other capital 
asset management related activities, including portfolio development 
and management activities, and investment strategy studies funded 
through the advance planning fund and the planning and design 
activities funded through the design fund, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and salaries and 
associated costs of the resident engineers who oversee those capital 
investments funded through this account, and funds provided for the 
purchase of land for the National Cemetery Administration through the 
land acquisition line item, none of the funds made available under this 
heading shall be used for any project which has not been approved by 
the Congress in the budgetary process: Provided further, That funds 
made available under this heading for fiscal year 2013, for each 
approved project shall be obligated: (1) by the awarding of a 
construction documents contract by September 30, 2013; and (2) by the 
awarding of a construction contract by September 30, 2014: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall promptly submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
written report on any approved major construction project for which 
obligations are not incurred within the time limitations established 
above.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including planning and 
assessments of needs which may lead to capital investments, 
architectural and engineering services, maintenance or guarantee period 
services costs associated with equipment guarantees provided under the 
project, services of claims analysts, offsite utility and storm 
drainage system construction costs, and site acquisition, or for any of 
the purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406, and chapter 81 of 
title 38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, where the 
estimated cost of a project is equal to or less than the amount set 
forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States Code, 
$607,530,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, along with 
unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, minor projects'' 
appropriations which are hereby made available for any project where 
the estimated cost is equal to or less than the amount set forth in 
such section: Provided, That funds made available under this heading 
shall be for: (1) repairs to any of the nonmedical facilities under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the Department which are necessary 
because of loss or damage caused by any natural disaster or 
catastrophe; and (2) temporary measures necessary to prevent or to 
minimize further loss by such causes.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify, or alter 
existing hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary facilities in State 
homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by sections 8131 
through 8137 of title 38, United States Code, $85,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             grants for construction of veterans cemeteries

    For grants to assist States and tribal governments in establishing, 
expanding, or improving veterans cemeteries as authorized by section 
2408 of title 38, United States Code, $46,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2013 for 
``Compensation and pensions'', ``Readjustment benefits'', and 
``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' may be transferred as necessary 
to any other of the mentioned appropriations: Provided, That before a 
transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and such Committees issue 
an approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 202.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2013, in this Act or any other Act, under the 
``Medical services'', ``Medical support and compliance'', and ``Medical 
facilities'' accounts may be transferred among the accounts: Provided, 
That any transfers between the ``Medical services'' and ``Medical 
support and compliance'' accounts of 1 percent or less of the total 
amount appropriated to the account in this or any other Act may take 
place subject to notification from the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
amount and purpose of the transfer: Provided further, That any 
transfers between the ``Medical services'' and ``Medical support and 
compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 percent, or exceeding the 
cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal year, may take place only after the 
Secretary requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is 
issued: Provided further, That any transfers to or from the ``Medical 
facilities'' account may take place only after the Secretary requests 
from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.
    Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for services authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; lease of 
a facility or land or both; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by sections 5901 through 5902 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
appropriations for ``Construction, major projects'', and 
``Construction, minor projects'') shall be available for the purchase 
of any site for or toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 205.  No appropriations in this title shall be available for 
hospitalization or examination of any persons (except beneficiaries 
entitled to such hospitalization or examination under the laws 
providing such benefits to veterans, and persons receiving such 
treatment under sections 7901 through 7904 of title 5, United States 
Code, or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless reimbursement of the 
cost of such hospitalization or examination is made to the ``Medical 
services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 206.  Appropriations available in this title for 
``Compensation and pensions'', ``Readjustment benefits'', and 
``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' shall be available for payment 
of prior year accrued obligations required to be recorded by law 
against the corresponding prior year accounts within the last quarter 
of fiscal year 2012.
    Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be 
available to pay prior year obligations of corresponding prior year 
appropriations accounts resulting from sections 3328(a), 3334, and 
3712(a) of title 31, United States Code, except that if such 
obligations are from trust fund accounts they shall be payable only 
from ``Compensation and pensions''.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
fiscal year 2013, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from the 
National Service Life Insurance Fund under section 1920 of title 38, 
United States Code, the Veterans' Special Life Insurance Fund under 
section 1923 of title 38, United States Code, and the United States 
Government Life Insurance Fund under section 1955 of title 38, United 
States Code, reimburse the ``General operating expenses, Veterans 
Benefits Administration'' and ``Information technology systems'' 
accounts for the cost of administration of the insurance programs 
financed through those accounts: Provided, That reimbursement shall be 
made only from the surplus earnings accumulated in such an insurance 
program during fiscal year 2013 that are available for dividends in 
that program after claims have been paid and actuarially determined 
reserves have been set aside: Provided further, That if the cost of 
administration of such an insurance program exceeds the amount of 
surplus earnings accumulated in that program, reimbursement shall be 
made only to the extent of such surplus earnings: Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall determine the cost of administration for 
fiscal year 2013 which is properly allocable to the provision of each 
such insurance program and to the provision of any total disability 
income insurance included in that insurance program.
    Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease proceeds to 
reimburse an account for expenses incurred by that account during a 
prior fiscal year for providing enhanced-use lease services, may be 
obligated during the fiscal year in which the proceeds are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for salaries and 
other administrative expenses shall also be available to reimburse the 
Office of Resolution Management of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
and the Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication 
under section 319 of title 38, United States Code, for all services 
provided at rates which will recover actual costs but not to exceed 
$42,904,000 for the Office of Resolution Management and $3,360,000 for 
the Office of Employment and Discrimination Complaint Adjudication: 
Provided, That payments may be made in advance for services to be 
furnished based on estimated costs: Provided further, That amounts 
received shall be credited to the ``General administration'' and 
``Information technology systems'' accounts for use by the office that 
provided the service.
    Sec. 211.  No appropriations in this title shall be available to 
enter into any new lease of real property if the estimated annual 
rental cost is more than $1,000,000, unless the Secretary submits a 
report the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
approve within 30 days following the date on which the report is 
received.
    Sec. 212.  No funds of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall be 
available for hospital care, nursing home care, or medical services 
provided to any person under chapter 17 of title 38, United States 
Code, for a non-service-connected disability described in section 
1729(a)(2) of such title, unless that person has disclosed to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in such form as the Secretary may 
require, current, accurate third-party reimbursement information for 
purposes of section 1729 of such title: Provided, That the Secretary 
may recover, in the same manner as any other debt due the United 
States, the reasonable charges for such care or services from any 
person who does not make such disclosure as required: Provided further, 
That any amounts so recovered for care or services provided in a prior 
fiscal year may be obligated by the Secretary during the fiscal year in 
which amounts are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 213.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, proceeds or 
revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing activities (including 
disposal) may be deposited into the ``Construction, major projects'' 
and ``Construction, minor projects'' accounts and be used for 
construction (including site acquisition and disposition), alterations, 
and improvements of any medical facility under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such sums as realized 
are in addition to the amount provided for in ``Construction, major 
projects'' and ``Construction, minor projects''.
    Sec. 214.  Amounts made available under ``Medical services'' are 
available--
            (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
        equipment; and
            (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and other 
        expenses incidental to funerals and burials for beneficiaries 
        receiving care in the Department.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 215.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, may be transferred to ``Medical services'', to remain available 
until expended for the purposes of that account.
    Sec. 216.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may enter into 
agreements with Indian tribes and tribal organizations which are party 
to the Alaska Native Health Compact with the Indian Health Service, and 
Indian tribes and tribal organizations serving rural Alaska which have 
entered into contracts with the Indian Health Service under the Indian 
Self Determination and Educational Assistance Act, to provide 
healthcare, including behavioral health and dental care. The Secretary 
shall require participating veterans and facilities to comply with all 
appropriate rules and regulations, as established by the Secretary. The 
term ``rural Alaska'' shall mean those lands sited within the external 
boundaries of the Alaska Native regions specified in sections 7(a)(1)-
(4) and (7)-(12) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended 
(43 U.S.C. 1606), and those lands within the Alaska Native regions 
specified in sections 7(a)(5) and 7(a)(6) of the Alaska Native Claims 
Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1606), which are not within the 
boundaries of the Municipality of Anchorage, the Fairbanks North Star 
Borough, the Kenai Peninsula Borough or the Matanuska Susitna Borough.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 217.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 8118 of title 
38, United States Code, may be transferred to the ``Construction, major 
projects'' and ``Construction, minor projects'' accounts, to remain 
available until expended for the purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 218.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to implement any policy prohibiting the Directors of the Veterans 
Integrated Services Networks from conducting outreach or marketing to 
enroll new veterans within their respective Networks.
    Sec. 219.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a quarterly 
report on the financial status of the Veterans Health Administration.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 220.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical services'', 
``Medical support and compliance'', ``Medical facilities'', ``General 
operating expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', ``General 
administration'', and ``National Cemetery Administration'' accounts for 
fiscal year 2013, may be transferred to or from the ``Information 
technology systems'' account: Provided, That before a transfer may take 
place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority 
to make the transfer and an approval is issued.
    Sec. 221.  Of the amounts made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2013, in this Act or any other Act, 
under the ``Medical facilities'' account for nonrecurring maintenance, 
not more than 20 percent of the funds made available shall be obligated 
during the last 2 months of that fiscal year: Provided, That the 
Secretary may waive this requirement after providing written notice to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 222.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2013 for ``Medical services'', 
``Medical support and compliance'', ``Medical facilities'', 
``Construction, minor projects'', and ``Information technology 
systems'', up to $247,356,000, plus reimbursements, may be transferred 
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be used for operation of the facilities 
designated as combined Federal medical facilities as described by 
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500): Provided, That 
additional funds may be transferred from accounts designated in this 
section to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon written notification 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 223.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, for health care provided at facilities designated as combined 
Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500) shall also be available: (1) for transfer 
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 3571); and (2) for operations of the facilities 
designated as combined Federal medical facilities as described by 
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 224.  Of the amounts available in this title for ``Medical 
services'', ``Medical support and compliance'', and ``Medical 
facilities'', a minimum of $15,000,000, shall be transferred to the 
DOD-VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, as authorized by section 
8111(d) of title 38, United States Code, to remain available until 
expended, for any purpose authorized by section 8111 of title 38, 
United States Code.

                    (including rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 225. (a) Of the funds appropriated in title II of division H 
of Public Law 112-74, the following amounts which became available on 
October 1, 2012, are hereby rescinded from the following accounts in 
the amounts specified:
            (1) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical services'', 
        $1,800,000,000.
            (2) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical support and 
        compliance'', $200,000,000.
            (3) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical facilities'', 
        $400,000,000.
    (b) In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, an 
additional amount is appropriated to the following accounts in the 
amounts specified to remain available until September 30, 2014:
            (1) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical services'', 
        $1,800,000,000.
            (2) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical support and 
        compliance'', $200,000,000.
            (3) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical facilities'', 
        $400,000,000.
    Sec. 226.  The Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of all bid savings in major construction projects that total 
at least $5,000,000, or 5 percent of the programmed amount of the 
project, whichever is less: Provided, That such notification shall 
occur within 14 days of a contract identifying the programmed amount: 
Provided further, That the Secretary shall notify the committees 14 
days prior to the obligation of such bid savings and shall describe the 
anticipated use of such savings.
    Sec. 227.  The scope of work for a project included in 
``Construction, major projects'' may not be increased above the scope 
specified for that project in the original justification data provided 
to the Congress as part of the request for appropriations.
    Sec. 228.  The Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
shall provide on a quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress notification of any single national outreach 
and awareness marketing campaign in which obligations exceed 
$2,000,000.
    Sec. 229.  The Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
shall include in the sufficiency letter required by section 117(d) of 
title 38, United States Code, that is due to the Congress on July 31 of 
each year a description of any changes exceeding $250,000,000 in 
funding requirements for the Medical Services account resulting from 
the spring recalculation of the Enrollee Healthcare Projection Model. 
Any such revised data shall not be modified to align with the pending 
budget request.
    Sec. 230.  The Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
shall submit a reprogramming request to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress whenever a change of ten 
percent or more is proposed in funding for the current year or advance 
year in the Medical Services initiatives listed in the Congressional 
submission. Such reprogramming may only go forward if the Committees 
have approved the request or if a period of fourteen days has elapsed.

                    (including rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 231.  Of the discretionary funds made available in Public Law 
112-74 to the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2013, 
$62,924,000 are rescinded from ``Medical services'', $12,737,000 are 
rescinded from ``Medical support and compliance'', and $5,593,000 are 
rescinded from ``Medical facilities''. Amounts rescinded in this 
section shall be derived from amounts that would otherwise have been 
available for the increase in civilian pay for fiscal year 2013 
proposed in the President's request.
    Sec. 232. (a) The amounts otherwise made available by this Act for 
the following accounts of the Department of Veterans Affairs are hereby 
reduced by the following amounts: 
            (1) ``Veterans Health Administration--Medical and 
        prosthetic research'', $809,000.
            (2) ``National Cemetery Administration'', $360,000.
            (3) ``Departmental Administration--General 
        administration'', $1,575,000.
            (4) ``Departmental Administration--General operating 
        expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', $6,100,000.
            (5) ``Departmental Administration--Information technology 
        systems'', $3,250,000.
            (6) ``Departmental Administration--Office of Inspector 
        General'', $450,000.
    (b) Amounts reduced in subsection (a) shall be derived from amounts 
that would otherwise have been available for the increase in civilian 
pay for 2013 proposed in the President's fiscal year 2013 budget 
request.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one-for-one replacement 
basis only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $7,500 
for official reception and representation expenses; and insurance of 
official motor vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of 
such countries, $59,290,000, to remain available until expended.

                 foreign currency fluctuations account

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended, for purposes authorized by section 2109 of 
title 36, United States Code.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by sections 7251 through 
7298 of title 38, United States Code, $31,187,000 Provided, That 
$2,726,000 shall be available for the purpose of providing financial 
assistance as described, and in accordance with the process and 
reporting procedures set forth, under this heading in Public Law 102-
229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, for maintenance, 
operation, and improvement of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' 
and Airmen's Home National Cemetery, including the purchase or lease of 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement on a one-for-one basis only, 
and not to exceed $1,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $173,733,000, to remain available until expended, of which, 
not less than $84,000,000 shall be for the Millennium Project. In 
addition, such sums as may be necessary for parking maintenance, 
repairs and replacement, to be derived from the ``Lease of Department 
of Defense Real Property for Defense Agencies'' account. Funds 
appropriated under this Act may be provided to Arlington County, 
Virginia, for the relocation of the federally owned water main at 
Arlington National Cemetery making additional land available for ground 
burials.

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

                               trust fund

    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home to 
operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi, to be paid from funds available in the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Trust Fund, $67,590,000, of which $2,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for construction and renovation of the 
physical plants at the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi.

                                TITLE IV

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                         Department of Defense

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $150,768,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2013: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                       Administrative Provisions

                    (including rescission of funds)

    Sec. 401.  Of the unobligated balances in section 2005 in title X, 
of Public Law 112-10 and division H in title IV of Public Law 112-74, 
$150,768,000 are hereby rescinded: Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 402.  Availability of funds.--Each amount designated in this 
Act by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or 
rescinded, if applicable) only if the President subsequently so 
designates all such amounts and transmits such designations to the 
Congress.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 503.  No part of any funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for normal and 
recognized executive-legislative relationships, for publicity or 
propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution, or use of 
any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television, or film 
presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending before 
Congress, except in presentation to Congress itself.
    Sec. 504.  All departments and agencies funded under this Act are 
encouraged, within the limits of the existing statutory authorities and 
funding, to expand their use of ``E-Commerce'' technologies and 
procedures in the conduct of their business practices and public 
service activities.
    Sec. 505.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and notifications 
required by this Act shall be submitted to the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related 
Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
    Sec. 506.  Hereafter, none of the funds made available in this Act 
may be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States Government except pursuant to a transfer made by, or 
transfer authority provided in, this or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 507.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for a project or program named for an individual serving as a Member, 
Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of the United States House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 508. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public 
website of that agency any report required to be submitted by the 
Congress in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head 
of the agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains confidential or proprietary 
        information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.
    Sec. 509. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
distributed to the Association of Community Organizations for Reform 
Now (ACORN) or its subsidiaries or successors.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used by an agency of the executive branch 
to exercise the power of eminent domain (to take the private property 
for public use) without the payment of just compensation.
    Sec. 512. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available to the Department of Defense in this Act may 
be used to construct, renovate, or expand any facility in the United 
States, its territories, or possessions to house any individual 
detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for the 
purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
control of the Department of Defense.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control 
                of the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States 
                Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    Sec. 513.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used by an agency of the executive branch 
to pay for first-class travel by an employee of the agency in 
contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, 
Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 514.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
execute a contract for goods or services, including construction 
services, where the contractor has not complied with Executive Order 
No. 12989.
    Sec. 515.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to 
any corporation that was convicted (or had an officer or agent of such 
corporation acting on behalf of the corporation convicted) of a felony 
criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 
months, where the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless 
the agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation, 
or such officer or agent, and made a determination that this further 
action is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government.
    Sec. 516.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee 
to, any corporation that any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been 
assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been 
exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner 
pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting 
the tax liability, where the awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax 
liability, unless the agency has considered suspension or debarment of 
the corporation and made a determination that this further action is 
not necessary to protect the interests of the Government.

                       spending reduction account

    Sec. 517.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority is $0.
    Sec. 518.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract using procedures that do not give to small 
business concerns owned and controlled by veterans (as that term is 
defined in section 3(q)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
632(q)(3)) that are included in the database under section 8127(f) of 
title 38, United States Code, any preference available with respect to 
such contract, except for a preference given to small business concerns 
owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans (as that term is 
defined in section 3(q)(2) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
632(q)(2)).
    Sec. 519.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to hire a new director of a national cemetery who is not a veteran.
    Sec. 520.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to prohibit a veterans service organization that is participating in 
the funeral or memorial service of a veteran from reciting any words as 
part of such service or memorial.
    Sec. 521.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to modify, maintain, or manage a structure, building, or barracks for a 
person, unit, or mission of the Armed Forces or Department of Defense 
outside of the normal tour of duty restationing or authorized base 
closure and realignment process.
    Sec. 522.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available to enforce section 526 of the Energy Independence and 
Security Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-140; 42 U.S.C. 17142).
    Sec. 523.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for the salary or compensation of a Director of Construction and 
Facilities Management of the Department of Veterans Affairs (or an 
individual acting as such Director) who does not meet the 
qualifications for such position required under section 312A(b) of 
title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 524.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to pay a performance award under 
section 5384 of title 5, United States Code.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2013''.

            Passed the House of Representatives May 31, 2012.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
                                                       Calendar No. 421

112th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5854

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  Making appropriations for military construction, the Department of 
   Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2013, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              June 5, 2012

            Received; read twice and placed on the calendar
