
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 778 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 778

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 13, 2012.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 117) making continuing 
appropriations for fiscal year 2013, and for other purposes. All points of order 
against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint 
resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations; and 
(2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 6365) to amend the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to replace the sequester established by 
the Budget Control Act of 2011. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Budget; and (2) one motion to recommit.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
