
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 6025 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

112th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6025


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 28, 2012

Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To provide for annual reports on the status of operational control of 
 the international land and maritime borders of the United States and 
               unlawful entries, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Mandatory Operational Control 
Reporting and Performance Measures Act of 2012''.

SEC. 2. ANNUAL REPORTS ON OPERATIONAL CONTROL OF INTERNATIONAL LAND AND 
              MARITIME BORDERS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to 
the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate, as part of the Department of Homeland Security's Annual 
Performance Report, an annual report on the number of miles of the 
international land and maritime border between the United States and 
Canada and the United States and Mexico that are under operational 
control of the Department, cumulatively and by sector.
    (b) Estimates of Unlawful Entries.--Each report under subsection 
(a) shall include the estimated number of unlawful entries between 
ports of entry along the international land and maritime borders of the 
United States during the period covered by the report, determined using 
all available sources of data.
    (c) Independent Evaluation.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
shall make available to the Government Accountability Office the data 
and methodology used to compile the statistics used in preparing each 
report under subsection (a), to ensure the suitability and statistical 
validity of such data and methodology.
    (d) Terminology and Methodology.--Except as provided in subsection 
(e), for purposes of consistent usage of terminology and methodology in 
the annual reports required under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall use the methodology used to measure such 
operational control in accordance with the Department's Annual 
Performance Reports for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2010.
    (e) Alternate Terminology and Methodology.--The Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall use the terminology and methodology described 
in subsection (d) until such time as an alternate terminology and 
methodology is--
            (1) required by an Act of Congress; or
            (2) certified as suitable and statistically valid by a 
        Department of Energy National Laboratory with prior expertise 
        in border security.

            Passed the House of Representatives November 27, 2012.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
