
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 747 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 747

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        August 1, 2012.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 6169) to provide for expedited 
consideration of a bill providing for comprehensive tax reform. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered 
as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any 
amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate on the bill equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Rules; (2) two hours of debate on 
the subject of reforming the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means; (3) the amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in part A of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, if offered by 
Representative Slaughter of New York or her designee, which shall be in order 
without intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as read, and 
shall be separately debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent; and (4) one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 8) to extend certain tax relief provisions enacted 
in 2001 and 2003, and for other purposes. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Ways and Means; (2) the amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in 
part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, if 
offered by Representative Levin of Michigan or his designee, which shall be in 
order without intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as read, 
and shall be separately debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and controlled 
by the proponent and an opponent; and (3) one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day during the period from August 3, 2012, 
through September 7, 2012--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved;
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment; and
    (c) bills and resolutions introduced during the period addressed by this 
section shall be numbered, listed in the Congressional Record, and when printed 
shall bear the date of introduction, but may be referred by the Speaker at a 
later time.
    Sec. 4.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 5.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the 
War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1546).
    Sec. 6.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of 
rule XIII.
    Sec. 7.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar or legislative day for purposes of 
clause 7(c)(1) of rule XXII.
    Sec. 8.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of August 
2, 2012, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules 
as though under clause 1 of rule XV.
    Sec. 9.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of August 2, 2012.
    Sec. 10. (a) In the engrossment of H.R. 8 the Clerk shall--
            (1) add the text of H.R. 6169, as passed by the House, as new matter 
        at the end of H.R. 8;
            (2) conform the title of H.R. 8 to reflect the addition of H.R. 
        6169, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;
            (3) assign appropriate designations to provisions within the 
        engrossment; and
            (4) conform provisions for short titles within the engrossment.
    (b) Upon the addition of the text of H.R. 6169, as passed by the House, to 
the engrossment of H.R. 8, H.R. 6169 shall be laid on the table.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
