
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 223 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 223

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        April 14, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 34) establishing the budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2012 and setting forth appropriate budgetary 
levels for fiscal years 2013 through 2021. The first reading of the concurrent 
resolution shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of 
the concurrent resolution are waived. General debate shall not exceed four 
hours, with three hours confined to the congressional budget equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Budget and one hour on the subject of economic goals and policies equally 
divided and controlled by Representative Brady of Texas and Representative 
Hinchey of New York or their respective designees. After general debate the 
concurrent resolution shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. It shall be in order to consider as an original concurrent resolution for 
the purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule the amendment in the nature 
of a substitute printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. That amendment in the nature of a substitute shall 
be considered as read. All points of order against that amendment in the nature 
of a substitute are waived. No amendment to that amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be in order except those printed in part B of the report of the 
Committee on Rules. Each amendment may be offered only in the order printed in 
the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be 
considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report 
equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not 
be subject to amendment. All points of order against the amendments printed in 
part B of the report are waived except that the adoption of an amendment in the 
nature of a substitute shall constitute the conclusion of consideration of 
amendments to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as 
original text. After the conclusion of consideration of the concurrent 
resolution for amendment and a final period of general debate, which shall not 
exceed 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on the Budget, the Committee shall rise and 
report the concurrent resolution to the House with such amendment as may have 
been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the concurrent resolution or 
to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the concurrent 
resolution and amendments thereto to final adoption without intervening motion 
except amendments offered by the chairman of the Committee on the Budget 
pursuant to section 305(a)(5) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to achieve 
mathematical consistency. The concurrent resolution shall not be subject to a 
demand for division of the question of its adoption.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
