
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 328 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 328

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 24, 2011.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 68) authorizing the 
limited use of the United States Armed Forces in support of the NATO mission in 
Libya, if called up by the chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or her 
designee. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are 
waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate, with 40 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs and 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed Services; and (2) one 
motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 2278) to limit the use of funds appropriated to the 
Department of Defense for United States Armed Forces in support of North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Operation Unified Protector with respect to Libya, 
unless otherwise specifically authorized by law, if called up by the chair of 
the Committee on Armed Services or his designee. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed Services; and (2) one 
motion to recommit.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
