
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 358 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 358

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 21, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1315) to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act to strengthen the review authority of the Financial Stability 
Oversight Council of regulations issued by the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
Protection. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and amendments specified in this section and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Financial Services. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Financial Services now printed in the bill, it shall be in order to consider as 
an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule an 
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of the Rules 
Committee Print dated July 14, 2011. That amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed 
in the report of the Committee on Rules. Each amendment may be offered only in 
the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in 
the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time 
specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an 
opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a 
demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion 
of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report 
the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member 
may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the 
Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute made in order as original text. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2.  In the engrossment of H.R. 1315, the Clerk shall--
            (1) add the text of H.R. 830, as passed by the House, as new matter 
        at the end of H.R. 1315;
            (2) conform the title of H.R. 1315 to reflect the addition of H.R. 
        830, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;
            (3) assign appropriate designations to provisions within the 
        engrossment; and
            (4) conform provisions for short titles within the engrossment.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
