
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 656 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 656

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 16, 2012.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4970) to reauthorize the Violence Against 
Women Act of 1994. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee 
on the Judiciary now printed in the bill, modified by the amendment printed in 
the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 
one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary; and (2) one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4310) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2013 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for fiscal year 2013, and for other purposes. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Armed Services. After general debate, the Committee 
of the Whole shall rise without motion. No further consideration of the bill 
shall be in order except pursuant to a subsequent order of the House.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
