
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 54 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 54

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      January 26, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 359) to reduce Federal spending and the deficit by terminating 
taxpayer financing of presidential election campaigns and party conventions. The 
first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the 
bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided among and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means and the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on House Administration. 
After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-
minute rule for a period not to exceed five hours. The bill shall be considered 
as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. No 
amendment to the bill shall be in order except those printed in the portion of 
the Congressional Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII 
and except pro forma amendments for the purpose of debate. Each amendment so 
printed may be offered only by the Member who caused it to be printed or a 
designee and shall be considered as read. At the conclusion of consideration of 
the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House 
with such amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
