
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 66 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                    September 15, 2011.
    Resolved, That the resolution from the House of Representatives 
(H.J. Res. 66) entitled ``Joint resolution approving the renewal of 
import restrictions contained in the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act 
of 2003.'', do pass with the following

                               AMENDMENT:

            Strike all after the resolving clause and insert the 
      following:

 DIVISION A--RENEWAL OF IMPORT RESTRICTIONS UNDER BURMESE FREEDOM AND 
                         DEMOCRACY ACT OF 2003

SECTION 1. RENEWAL OF IMPORT RESTRICTIONS UNDER BURMESE FREEDOM AND 
              DEMOCRACY ACT OF 2003.

    (a) In General.--Congress approves the renewal of the import 
restrictions contained in section 3(a)(1) and section 3A (b)(1) and 
(c)(1) of the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act of 2003.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--This division shall be deemed to be a 
``renewal resolution'' for purposes of section 9 of the Burmese Freedom 
and Democracy Act of 2003.

SEC. 2. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This division shall take effect on the date of the enactment of 
this joint resolution or July 26, 2011, whichever occurs earlier.

                DIVISION B--SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to provide emergency supplemental 
appropriations for disaster relief for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2011, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                          Farm Service Agency

                     emergency conservation program

    For ``Emergency Conservation Program'' for expenses resulting from 
a major disaster designation pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122(2)), 
$78,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
amount in this paragraph shall not become available for obligation 
until October 1, 2011:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by Congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 (Public Law 99-177), as amended.

                  emergency forest restoration program

    For ``Emergency Forest Restoration Program'', for expenses 
resulting from a major disaster designation pursuant to the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5122(2)), $49,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That the amount in this paragraph shall not become available for 
obligation until October 1, 2011:  Provided further, That such amount 
is designated by Congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1958 (Public Law 99-177), as amended.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                 emergency watershed protection program

    For ``Emergency Watershed Protection Program'' for expenses 
resulting from a major disaster designation pursuant to the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5122(2)), $139,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That the amount in this paragraph shall not become available for 
obligation until October 1, 2011:  Provided further, That such amount 
is designated by Congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177), as amended.

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                  Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Development Assistance 
Programs'' for expenses related to disaster relief, long-term recovery, 
and restoration of infrastructure in areas that received a major 
disaster designation in 2011 pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122(2)), 
$135,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
amount in this paragraph shall not become available for obligation 
until October 1, 2011:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by Congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 (Public Law 99-177), as amended.

                               TITLE III

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                       Corps of Engineers--Civil

                   mississippi river and tributaries

    For an additional amount for ``Mississippi River and Tributaries'' 
for expenses resulting from a major disaster designation pursuant to 
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5122(2)), $890,177,300, to remain available until expended for 
repair of damages to Federal projects:  Provided, That the amount in 
this paragraph shall not become available for obligation until October 
1, 2011:  Provided further, That the Assistant Secretary of the Army 
for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing 
the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning not later than 
60 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That each 
amount in this paragraph is designated by Congress as being for 
disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177), as 
amended.

                       operation and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance'', 
$60,000,000, to remain available until expended to dredge navigation 
channels and repair damage to Corps projects nationwide related to 
natural disasters:  Provided, That the Assistant Secretary of the Army 
for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing 
the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning not later than 
60 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That the amount 
in this paragraph is designated by Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 3(c)(1) of H. Res. 5 (112th Congress) 
and to section 403(a) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.
    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance'' for 
expenses resulting from a major disaster designation pursuant to the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5122(2)) to dredge navigation channels and repair damage to 
Corps projects nationwide related to natural disasters, $88,003,700, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That the amount in this 
paragraph shall not become available for obligation until October 1, 
2011:  Provided further, That the Assistant Secretary of the Army for 
Civil Works shall provide a monthly report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing 
the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning not later than 
60 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That each 
amount in this paragraph is designated by Congress as being for 
disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177), as 
amended.

                 flood control and coastal emergencies

    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', as authorized by section 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 
(33 U.S.C. 701n), for necessary expenses to prepare for flood, 
hurricane and other natural disasters and support emergency operations, 
repair and other activities in response to recent natural disasters as 
authorized by law, $244,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works 
shall provide a monthly report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation 
and obligation of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after 
enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That the amount in this 
paragraph is designated by Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 3(c)(1) of H. Res. 5 (112th Congress) 
and to section 403(a) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.
    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', for expenses resulting from a major disaster designation 
pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122(2)) and as authorized by section 5 of 
the Act of August 18, 1941 (33 U.S.C. 701n), for necessary expenses to 
prepare for flood, hurricane and other natural disasters and support 
emergency operations, repair and other activities in response to recent 
natural disasters as authorized by law, $66,387,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That the amount in this paragraph 
shall not become available for obligation until October 1, 2011:  
Provided further, That the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil 
Works shall provide a monthly report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing 
the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning not later than 
60 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That each 
amount in this paragraph is designated by Congress as being for 
disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177), as 
amended.

                                TITLE IV

                    DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

                            disaster relief

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Relief'', $500,000,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That the amount in this 
paragraph is designated by Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 3(c)(1) of H. Res. 5 (112th Congress) 
and to section 403(a) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.
    For an additional amount for the ``Disaster Relief'' for expenses 
resulting from a major disaster designation pursuant to the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5122(2)), $4,600,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That the amount in this paragraph shall not become available 
for obligation until October 1, 2011:  Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by Congress as being for disaster relief pursuant 
to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177), as amended. This Act may be 
cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental Disaster Relief Appropriations 
Resolution, 2011''.

                                TITLE V

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                       community development fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Community Development Fund'', 
for necessary expenses related to disaster relief, long-term recovery, 
and restoration of infrastructure, housing, and economic revitalization 
resulting from a major disaster designation pursuant to the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5122(2)) in 2011, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
activities authorized under title I of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-383):  Provided, That the amount 
in this paragraph shall not become available for obligation until 
October 1, 2011:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
Congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 
(Public Law 99-177), as amended:  Provided further, That funds shall be 
awarded directly to the State or unit of general local government at 
the discretion of the Secretary:  Provided further, That prior to the 
obligation of funds a grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary 
detailing the proposed use of all funds, including criteria for 
eligibility and how the use of these funds will address long-term 
recovery and restoration of infrastructure:  Provided further, That 
funds provided under this heading may be used by a State or locality as 
a matching requirement, share, or contribution for any other Federal 
program:  Provided further, That such funds may not be used for 
activities reimbursable by, or for which funds are made available by, 
the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the Army Corps of Engineers: 
 Provided further, That funds allocated under this heading shall not 
adversely affect the amount of any formula assistance received by a 
State or subdivision thereof under the Community Development Fund:  
Provided further, That a State or subdivision thereof may use up to 5 
percent of its allocation for administrative costs:  Provided further, 
That in administering the funds under this heading, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development may waive, or specify alternative 
requirements for, any provision of any statute or regulation that the 
Secretary administers in connection with the obligation by the 
Secretary or the use by the recipient of these funds or guarantees 
(except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, 
labor standards, and the environment), upon a request by a State or 
subdivision thereof explaining why such waiver is required to 
facilitate the use of such funds or guarantees, if the Secretary finds 
that such waiver would not be inconsistent with the overall purpose of 
title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register any 
waiver of any statute or regulation that the Secretary administers 
pursuant to title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974 no later than 5 days before the effective date of such waiver.
    This division may be cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental Disaster 
Relief Appropriations Resolution, 2011''.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
112th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                             H. J. RES. 66

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENT
