
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 375 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 375

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 28, 2011.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (S. 627) to establish the Commission on Freedom 
of Information Act Processing Delays. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in 
part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, 
modified by the amendments printed in part B of that report, shall be considered 
as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) two hours of debate, with one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Rules, 30 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means, and 30 minutes 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on the Budget; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2. (a) It shall be in order at any time through the calendar day of 
July 31, 2011, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the 
rules if the legislative text that is the object of the motion was available to 
Members, Delegates, and the Resident Commissioner on the legislative day before 
consideration, except that a motion described in subsection (b) may not be 
entertained until the third legislative day on which the legislative text that 
is the object of the motion is available to Members, Delegates, and the Resident 
Commissioner.
    (b) If the Speaker entertains a motion to suspend the rules relating to a 
measure proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution under 
subsection (a) debate under clause 1(c) of rule XV shall be extended to two 
hours.
    Sec. 3.  When the House adjourns by operation of section 4 of this 
resolution on any legislative day during the period from August 1, 2011, through 
September 6, 2011, it shall stand adjourned until the third constitutional day 
thereafter at a time to be announced by the Speaker in declaring the adjournment 
(except that when the House adjourns on September 6, 2011, it shall stand 
adjourned until 2 p.m. on September 7, 2011).
    Sec. 4.  On each legislative day during the period addressed by section 3 of 
this resolution:
            (1) the Speaker may dispense with legislative business, in which 
        case the House shall stand adjourned pursuant to section 3 of this 
        resolution after the third daily order of business under clause 1 of 
        rule XIV; and
            (2) if the Speaker does not dispense with legislative business, the 
        Speaker may at any time declare the House adjourned pursuant to section 
        3 of this resolution.
    Sec. 5.  On each legislative day during the period addressed by section 3 of 
this resolution (except a day before August 8, 2011, on which the Speaker does 
not dispense with legislative business pursuant to section 4), the Journal of 
the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered as approved.
    Sec. 6.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the 
War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1546).
    Sec. 7.  Bills and resolutions introduced during the period addressed by 
section 3 of this resolution shall be numbered, included in the Congressional 
Record, and printed with the date of introduction, but may be referred by the 
Speaker at a later time.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
