
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2551 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 172
112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2551

                          [Report No. 112-80]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 22, 2011

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                           September 15, 2011

         Reported by Mr. Nelson of Nebraska, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2012, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
<DELETED>That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for 
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2012, and for other purposes, 
namely:</DELETED>

             <DELETED>TITLE I--LEGISLATIVE BRANCH</DELETED>

              <DELETED>HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$1,226,680,000 (reduced by $1,000,000), as follows:</DELETED>

              <DELETED>house leadership offices</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, 
$23,275,773, including: Office of the Speaker, $6,942,770, including 
$25,000 for official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority 
Floor Leader, $2,277,595, including $10,000 for official expenses of 
the Majority Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $7,432,812, 
including $10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office 
of the Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, 
$1,971,050, including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Whip; Office of the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority 
Whip, $1,524,951, including $5,000 for official expenses of the 
Minority Whip; Republican Conference, $1,572,788; Democratic Caucus, 
$1,553,807. In addition to the amounts made available above, for 
salaries and expenses under this heading, to be available during the 
period beginning September 30, 2012, and ending December 31, 2013; 
$5,818,948, including: Office of the Speaker, $1,735,694, including 
$6,250 for official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority 
Floor Leader, $569,399, including $2,500 for official expenses of the 
Majority Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $1,858,205, 
including $2,500 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office 
of the Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, 
$492,763, including $1,250 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; 
Office of the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, 
$381,238, including $1,250 for official expenses of the Minority Whip; 
Republican Conference, $393,197; Democratic Caucus, $388,452.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Members' Representational Allowances</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, 
                      and Official Mail</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For Members' representational allowances, including 
Members' clerk hire, official expenses, and official mail, 
$573,939,282.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Committee Employees</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Standing Committees, Special and Select</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special 
and select, authorized by House resolutions, $125,964,870:  Provided, 
That such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses 
until December 31, 2012.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Committee on Appropriations</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on 
Appropriations, $26,665,785, including studies and examinations of 
executive agencies and temporary personal services for such committee, 
to be expended in accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946 and to be available for reimbursement to 
agencies for services performed:  Provided, That such amount shall 
remain available for such salaries and expenses until December 31, 
2012.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Salaries, Officers and Employees</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $177,628,400, including: for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $23,000, of which 
not more than $20,000 is for the Family Room, for official 
representation and reception expenses, $26,114,400, of which $2,000,000 
shall remain available until expended; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of 
Superintendent of Garages and the Office of Emergency Management, and 
including not more than $3,000 for official representation and 
reception expenses, $12,585,000 of which $4,445,000 shall remain 
available until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Chief Administrative Officer including not more than $3,000 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $116,782,000, of which 
$3,937,000 shall remain available until expended; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, $5,045,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of General Counsel, $1,415,000; for 
the Office of the Chaplain, $179,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian, $2,000 
for preparing the Digest of Rules, and not more than $1,000 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $2,060,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the 
House, $3,258,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Legislative Counsel of the House, $8,814,000; for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, $859,000; for other 
authorized employees, $347,000; and for salaries and expenses of the 
Historian, $170,000.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Allowances and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House 
resolution or law, $293,386,942 (reduced by $1,000,000), including: 
supplies, materials, administrative costs and Federal tort claims, 
$3,696,118; official mail for committees, leadership offices, and 
administrative offices of the House, $201,000; Government contributions 
for health, retirement, Social Security, and other applicable employee 
benefits, $264,848,219; Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery, 
$17,112,072, of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended; 
transition activities for new members and staff, $2,721,533 (reduced by 
$1,000,000); Wounded Warrior Program $2,500,000, to remain available 
until expended; Office of Congressional Ethics, $1,548,000; and 
miscellaneous items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair 
and operation of House motor vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, 
and gratuities to heirs of deceased employees of the House, 
$760,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provisions</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 101. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances To Be Used for Deficit Reduction or To 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 2012. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for fiscal 
year 2012 shall be deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit 
reduction (or, if there is no Federal budget deficit after all such 
payments have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, in such manner 
as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of 
the House of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe 
regulations to carry out this section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term 
``Member of the House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, 
or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Republican Policy Committee</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 102. (a) Section 109(a) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2005 (2 U.S.C. 74a-13(a)) is amended by striking 
``the chair of the Republican Conference'' and inserting the following: 
``the Speaker of the House of Representatives (or, if the Speaker is 
not a member of the Republican Party, the Minority Leader of the House 
of Representatives)''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Section 109(b) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 74a-13(b)) is 
amended by striking the period at the end and inserting the following: 
``, and which shall be obligated and expended as directed by the 
Speaker (or, if the Speaker is not a member of the Republican party, 
the Minority Leader).''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with 
respect to fiscal year 2012 and each succeeding fiscal year.</DELETED>

  <DELETED>Authority of Speaker and Minority Leader to Allocate Funds 
            Among Certain House Leadership Offices</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 103. (a) Authority of Speaker.--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Authority described.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law (including any provision of law that 
        sets forth an allowance for official expenses), the amount 
        appropriated or otherwise made available during a Congress for 
        the salaries and expenses of any office or authority described 
        in paragraph (2) shall be the amount allocated for such office 
        or authority by the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
        from the aggregate amount appropriated or otherwise made 
        available for all such offices and authorities.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Offices and authorities described.--The 
        offices and authorities described in this paragraph are as 
        follows:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) The Office of the Speaker.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) The Speaker's Office for Legislative 
                Floor Activities.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (C) The Republican Steering Committee (if 
                the Speaker is a member of the Republican party) or the 
                Democratic Steering and Policy Committee (if the 
                Speaker is a member of the Democratic party).</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (D) The Republican Policy Committee (if 
                the Speaker is a member of the Republican 
                party).</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (E) Training and program development--
                majority (as described under the heading ``House 
                leadership offices'' in the most recent bill making 
                appropriations for the legislative branch that was 
                enacted prior to the date of the enactment of this 
                Act).</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (F) Cloakroom personnel--majority (as so 
                described).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Authority of Minority Leader.--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Authority described.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law (including any provision of law that 
        sets forth an allowance for official expenses), the amount 
        appropriated or otherwise made available during a Congress for 
        the salaries and expenses of any office or authority described 
        in paragraph (2) shall be the amount allocated for such office 
        or authority by the Minority Leader of the House of 
        Representatives from the aggregate amount appropriated or 
        otherwise made available for all such offices and 
        authorities.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Offices and authorities described.--The 
        offices and authorities described in this paragraph are as 
        follows:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) The Office of the Minority 
                Leader.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) The Democratic Steering and Policy 
                Committee (if the Minority Leader is a member of the 
                Democratic party) or the Republican Steering Committee 
                (if the Minority Leader is a member of the Republican 
                party).</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (C) The Republican Policy Committee (if 
                the Minority Leader is a member of the Republican 
                party).</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (D) Training and program development--
                minority (as described under the heading ``House 
                leadership offices'' in the most recent bill making 
                appropriations for the legislative branch that was 
                enacted prior to the date of the enactment of this 
                Act).</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (E) Cloakroom personnel--minority (as so 
                described).</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (F) Nine minority employees (as so 
                described).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect 
to any months occurring during the One Hundred Twelfth Congress that 
begin after the date of the enactment of this Act, and to any 
succeeding Congress.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Republican Conference and the Democratic Steering and Policy 
                          Committee</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 104. (a) Section 103(b) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (2 U.S.C. 74a-8(b)) is amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
        striking ``Subject to the allocation described in subsection 
        (c), funds'' and inserting ``Funds'';</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``direct;'' and 
        inserting the following: ``direct (or, if the Speaker is not a 
        member of the Republican Party, under such terms and conditions 
        as the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives may 
        direct);''; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) in paragraph (2), by striking ``direct.'' and 
        inserting the following: ``direct (or, if the Speaker is a 
        member of the Democratic Party, under such terms and conditions 
        as the Speaker may direct).''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Section 103 of such Act (2 U.S.C. 74a-8(c)) is 
amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) by striking subsection (c); and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
        (c).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) The amendments made by this section shall take effect 
as if included in the enactment of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1999.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Transfer of House Emergency Planning, Preparedness, and 
           Operations Functions to Sergeant at Arms</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 105.  Effective February 1, 2010--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) section 905 of the Emergency Supplemental Act, 
        2002 (2 U.S.C. 130i) is repealed; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the functions and responsibilities of the 
        Office of Emergency Planning, Preparedness and Operations under 
        section 905 of such Act are transferred and assigned to the 
        Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives.</DELETED>

                     <DELETED>JOINT ITEMS</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For Joint Committees, as follows:</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Joint Economic Committee</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,203,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Joint Committee on Taxation</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on 
Taxation, $10,424,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative 
Officer of the House of Representatives.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    For other joint items, as follows:</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Office of the Attending Physician</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses 
of the emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his 
assistants, including: (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the 
Attending Physician; (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior 
Medical Officer; (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three 
medical officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending 
Physician; (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 
per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore 
provided for such assistants; and (5) $2,427,000 for reimbursement to 
the Department of the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and 
equipment assigned to the Office of the Attending Physician, which 
shall be advanced and credited to the applicable appropriation or 
appropriations from which such salaries, allowances, and other expenses 
are payable and shall be available for all the purposes thereof, 
$3,400,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Office of Congressional Accessibility Services</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,363,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>CAPITOL POLICE</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>Salaries</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime, hazardous duty pay, and Government contributions for health, 
retirement, social security, professional liability insurance, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $277,132,624 (increased by 
$1,000,000), to be disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his 
designee.</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>General Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including 
motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment 
and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, 
medical services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal 
and professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation 
of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $63,003,740, of which 
$2,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2014, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of 
basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for fiscal year 2012 shall be paid by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland 
Security.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1001.  Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2012 for 
the Capitol Police may be transferred between the headings 
``Salaries''and ``General Expenses''upon the approval of the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.</DELETED>

  <DELETED>Waiver by Chief of Capitol Police of Claims Arising Out of 
         Erroneous Payments to Officers and Employees</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1002. (a) Waiver of Claim.--Subject to the approval 
of the Capitol Police Board, the Chief of the United States Capitol 
Police may waive in whole or in part a claim of the United States 
against a person arising out of an erroneous payment of any pay or 
allowances, other than travel and transportation expenses and 
allowances, to an officer, member, or employee of the United States 
Capitol Police, if the collection of the claim would be against equity 
and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United 
States.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Investigation of Application; Report.--The Chief shall 
investigate each application for the waiver of a claim under subsection 
(a) and shall submit a written report of the investigation to the 
Capitol Police Board, except that if the aggregate amount of the claim 
involved exceeds $1,500, the Comptroller General may also investigate 
the application and submit a written report of the investigation to the 
Capitol Police Board.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Prohibition of Waiver Under Certain Circumstances.--
The Chief may not exercise the authority to waive a claim under 
subsection (a) if--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) in the Chief's opinion, there exists in 
        connection with the claim an indication of fraud, 
        misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of 
        the officer, member, or employee involved or of any other 
        person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim; 
        or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the Chief receives the application for the 
        waiver after the expiration of the 3-year period that begins on 
        the date on which the erroneous payment of pay or allowances 
        was discovered.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (d) Credit for Waiver.--In the audit and settlement of 
accounts of any accountable officer or official, full credit shall be 
given for any amounts with respect to which collection by the United 
States is waived under subsection (a).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (e) Effect of Waiver.--An erroneous payment, the 
collection of which is waived under subsection (a), is deemed a valid 
payment for all purposes.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (f) Construction With Other Laws.--This section does not 
affect any authority under any other law to litigate, settle, 
compromise, or waive any claim of the United States.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (g) Rules and Regulations.--The Chief shall promulgate 
rules and regulations to carry out this section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (h) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect 
to payments of pay and allowances made at any time after the Chief 
became the disbursing officer for the United States Capitol Police 
pursuant to section 1018(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 1907(a)).</DELETED>

                <DELETED>OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,817,000, of which $884,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2013:  Provided, That not more than $500 
may be expended on the certification of the Executive Director of the 
Office of Compliance in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $43,787,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL</DELETED>

               <DELETED>General Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other 
personal services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and 
studies in connection with activities under the care of the Architect 
of the Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and 
administrative support of the operations under the Architect of the 
Capitol including the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, and other facilities under 
the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings 
and office equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect 
of the Capitol may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle, $104,790,000, of which 
$3,199,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2016.</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>Capitol Building</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the Capitol, $35,354,000, of which $10,263,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2016.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>Capitol Grounds</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of 
grounds surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, 
and the Capitol Power Plant, $9,852,000.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>House Office Buildings</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the House office buildings, $89,154,000, of which 
$40,631,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2016.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, for a payment to the House Historic Buildings 
Revitalization Trust Fund, $30,000,000, shall remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Capitol Power Plant</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power 
(including the purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer 
services for the Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of 
Congress buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, 
Senate garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from 
plants in any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office 
and Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $127,159,000, of which $33,377,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2016:  Provided, That not more than 
$9,000,000 of the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this 
appropriation as herein provided shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2012.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Library Buildings and Grounds</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and 
structural maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and 
grounds, $38,486,000, of which $12,726,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2016.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds and Security</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United 
States Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computer 
Facility, and AOC security operations, $21,500,000, of which $3,473,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2016.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>Botanic Garden</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, 
and collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $12,000,000 (reduced by $632,780):  
Provided, That of the amount made available under this heading, the 
Architect may obligate and expend such sums as may be necessary for the 
maintenance, care and operation of the National Garden established 
under section 307E of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 
(2 U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved by the Architect or a duly 
authorized designee.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Capitol Visitor Center</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the 
Capitol Visitor Center, $21,276,000.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>LIBRARY OF CONGRESS</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not 
otherwise provided for, including development and maintenance of the 
Library's catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library 
buildings; special clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of 
uniforms; preservation of motion pictures in the custody of the 
Library; operation and maintenance of the American Folklife Center in 
the Library; activities under the Civil Rights History Project Act of 
2009; preparation and distribution of catalog records and other 
publications of the Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor 
vehicle; and expenses of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not 
properly chargeable to the income of any trust fund held by the Board, 
$412,446,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), of 
which not more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from collections 
credited to this appropriation during fiscal year 2012, and shall 
remain available until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 
(chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 
shall be derived from collections during fiscal year 2012 and shall 
remain available until expended for the development and maintenance of 
an international legal information database and activities related 
thereto:  Provided, That the Library of Congress may not obligate or 
expend any funds derived from collections under the Act of June 28, 
1902, in excess of the amount authorized for obligation or expenditure 
in appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $6,350,000:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on 
the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field 
Offices:  Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$4,800,000 shall remain available until expended for the digital 
collections and educational curricula program.</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>Copyright Office</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, 
$50,974,000, of which not more than $28,029,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2012 under section 708(d) of title 17, 
United States Code:  Provided, That not more than $3,000,000 shall be 
derived from prior year available unobligated balances:  Provided 
further, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any funds 
derived from collections under such section, in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts:  
Provided further, That not more than $5,484,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2012 under sections 111(d)(2), 
119(b)(2), 803(e), 1005, and 1316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
amount by which collections and prior year available unobligated 
balances are less than $36,513,000:  Provided further, That not more 
than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is available for the 
maintenance of an ``International Copyright Institute'' in the 
Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the purpose of training 
nationals of developing countries in intellectual property laws and 
policies:  Provided further, That not more than $4,250 may be expended, 
on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses for activities of the 
International Copyright Institute and for copyright delegations, 
visitors, and seminars:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United States Code, any amounts 
made available under this heading which are attributable to royalty 
fees and payments received by the Copyright Office pursuant to sections 
111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may be used for the costs 
incurred in the administration of the Copyright Royalty Judges program, 
with the exception of the costs of salaries and benefits for the 
Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under section 802(e).</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Congressional Research Service</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 203 of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 
166) and to revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United 
States of America, $104,091,000:  Provided, That no part of such amount 
may be used to pay any salary or expense in connection with any 
publication, or preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of 
Public General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless 
such publication has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 
1931 (chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $50,674,000:  
Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, $650,000 shall be 
available to contract to provide newspapers to blind and physically 
handicapped residents at no cost to the individual.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provisions</DELETED>

     <DELETED>Reimbursable and Revolving Fund Activities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1101. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2012, the 
obligational authority of the Library of Congress for the activities 
described in subsection (b) may not exceed $169,725,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection 
(a) are reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from 
sources other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts 
for the legislative branch.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Transfer of Funds.--During fiscal year 2012, the 
Librarian of Congress may temporarily transfer funds appropriated in 
this Act, under the heading ``Library of Congress'', under the 
subheading ``Salaries and Expenses'', to the revolving fund for the 
FEDLINK Program and the Federal Research Program established under 
section 103 of the Library of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement 
Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-481; 2 U.S.C. 182c):  Provided, That the 
total amount of such transfers may not exceed $1,900,000:  Provided 
further, That the appropriate revolving fund account shall reimburse 
the Library for any amounts transferred to it before the period of 
availability of the Library appropriation expires.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Transfer Authority</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1102. (a) In General.--Amounts appropriated for 
fiscal year 2012 for the Library of Congress may be transferred during 
fiscal year 2012 between any of the headings under the heading 
``Library of Congress'' upon the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Limitation.--Not more than 10 percent of the total 
amount of funds appropriated to the account under any heading under the 
heading ``Library of Congress'' for fiscal year 2012 may be transferred 
from that account by all transfers made under subsection (a).</DELETED>

  <DELETED>Funds Available for Workers Compensation Payments</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1103. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, available balances of expired Library of Congress 
appropriations shall be available for the purposes of making payments 
for employees of the Library of Congress under section 8147 of title 5, 
United States Code, without regard to the fiscal year for which the 
obligation to make such payments is incurred.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect 
to appropriations for fiscal year 2012 and each fiscal year 
thereafter.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE</DELETED>

         <DELETED>Congressional Printing and Binding</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and 
the distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing 
and binding of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, and 
distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $78,000,000 (reduced by 
$3,414,150.29):  Provided, That this appropriation shall not be 
available for paper copies of the permanent edition of the 
Congressional Record for individual Representatives, Resident 
Commissioners or Delegates authorized under section 906 of title 44, 
United States Code:  Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
available for the payment of obligations incurred under the 
appropriations for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year limitation under 
section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of the funds 
appropriated or made available under this Act or any other Act for 
printing and binding and related services provided to Congress under 
chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to print a 
document, report, or publication after the 27-month period beginning on 
the date that such document, report, or publication is authorized by 
Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such printing in 
accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or 
accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be 
transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving fund for 
carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
Senate:  Provided further, That notwithstanding sections 901, 902, and 
906 of title 44, United States Code, this appropriation may be used to 
prepare indexes to the Congressional Record on only a monthly and 
session basis.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Office of Superintendent of Documents</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents 
necessary to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government 
publications and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, 
other Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $35,000,000 (reduced by 
$1,531,990.51):  Provided, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000 
from current year appropriations are authorized for producing and 
disseminating Congressional serial sets and other related publications 
for fiscal years 2010 and 2011 to depository and other designated 
libraries:  Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended 
balances in this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years may be transferred to the Government Printing Office 
revolving fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject 
to the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>Government Printing Office Revolving Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to 
make such expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in 
accordance with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 
31, United States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
programs and purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal 
year for the Government Printing Office revolving fund:  Provided, That 
not more than $7,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public 
Printer in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses:  Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available 
for the hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles:  
Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses 
of the advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed 
necessary to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code:  
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That activities financed through the revolving fund may provide 
information in any format.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability 
Office, including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the 
certification of the Comptroller General of the United States in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses; 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5315 of such title; hire of one 
passenger motor vehicle; advance payments in foreign countries in 
accordance with section 3324 of title 31, United States Code; benefits 
comparable to those payable under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and 
under regulations prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United 
States, rental of living quarters in foreign countries, $511,296,000:  
Provided, That, in addition, $18,304,000 of payments received under 
sections 782, 3521, and 9105 of title 31, United States Code, shall be 
available without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the National 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit 
Forum shall be available to finance an appropriate share of either 
Forum's costs as determined by the respective Forum, including 
necessary travel expenses of non-Federal participants:  Provided 
further, That payments hereunder to the Forum may be credited as 
reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs involved are 
initially financed.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provision</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1201. (a) Section 210 of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2005 (2 U.S.C. 60q) is amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) by striking subsection (d); and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) in subsection (f)(2)(A), by striking ``United 
        States Code'' and inserting ``United States Code, but excluding 
        the Government Accountability Office''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Section 3521(1) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``section 105'' and inserting ``section 105 (other 
than the Government Accountability Office)''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) The amendments made by this section shall apply with 
respect to voluntary separation incentive payments made during fiscal 
year 2012 or any succeeding fiscal year.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust 
Fund for financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under 
section 313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 
U.S.C. 1151), $1,000,000.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>TITLE II--GENERAL PROVISIONS</DELETED>

      <DELETED>maintenance and care of private vehicles</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act 
shall be used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except 
for emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under 
regulations relating to parking facilities for the House of 
Representatives issued by the Committee on House Administration and for 
the Senate issued by the Committee on Rules and 
Administration.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>fiscal year limitation</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 202.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act 
shall remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2012 unless 
expressly so provided in this Act.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>rates of compensation and designation</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 
32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or 
designation of any office or position appropriated for is different 
from that specifically established by such Act, the rate of 
compensation and the designation in this Act shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto:  Provided, That the provisions in this Act for 
the various items of official expenses of Members, officers, and 
committees of the House of Representatives and Senate, and clerk hire 
for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives shall be the 
permanent law with respect thereto.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>consulting services</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, under 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued under existing 
law.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>awards and settlements</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 205.  Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated 
to the account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of the 
Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1415(a)) to pay 
awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>costs of lbfmc</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 206.  Amounts available for administrative expenses 
of any legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative 
Branch Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on 
March 26, 1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of 
LBFMC costs as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC 
costs to be shared among all participating legislative branch entities 
(in such allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) 
may not exceed $2,000.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>landscape maintenance</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 207.  The Architect of the Capitol, in consultation 
with the District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve 
the landscape features, excluding streets, in the irregular shaped 
grassy areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW on the northeast, Second 
Street SW on the west, Square 582 on the south, and the beginning of 
the I-395 tunnel on the southeast.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>limitation on transfers</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 208.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or 
transfer authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation 
Act.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>guided tours of the capitol</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 209. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none 
of the funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act 
may be used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States 
Capitol which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of 
Congress and other offices of the House of Representatives and 
Senate.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at 
the direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>spending reduction account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 210.  The amount by which the applicable allocation 
of new budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, excluding Senate items, exceeds the amount of 
proposed new budget authority is $0 (increased by $632,780) (increased 
by $4,946,140.80).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 211.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to deliver a printed copy of a bill, joint resolution, or 
resolution to the office of a Member of the House of Representatives 
(including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress) unless 
the Member requests a copy.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 212.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to deliver a printed copy of any version of the 
Congressional Record to the office of a Member of the House of 
Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the 
Congress).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 213.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
Representatives to make any payments from any Members' Representational 
Allowance for the leasing of a vehicle in an aggregate amount that 
exceeds $1,000 for the vehicle in any month.</DELETED>
<DELETED>     This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2012''.</DELETED>
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2012, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                                 SENATE

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $18,760; the 
President Pro Tempore of the Senate, $37,520; Majority Leader of the 
Senate, $37,520; Minority Leader of the Senate, $37,520; Majority Whip 
of the Senate, $9,380; Minority Whip of the Senate, $9,380; Chairmen of 
the Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $4,690 for each 
Chairman; and Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy Committees, 
$4,690 for each Chairman; in all, $168,840.

    Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $14,070 for each such Leader; in all, $28,140.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized 
by law, including agency contributions, $175,238,190, which shall be 
paid from this appropriation without regard to the following 
limitations:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $2,361,248.

                  office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $705,466.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $4,889,480.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $3,084,538.

                      committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $14,863,573.

                         conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,619,195 for each such committee; in all, $3,238,390.

 offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority 
and the Conference of the Minority, $797,402.

                           policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,653,905 for each such committee; in all, 
$3,307,810.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $389,320.

                        office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $24,194,115.

             office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $73,000,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,722,388.

               agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $42,684,460. 

            Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $6,711,310.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,448,457.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                             of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $7,110; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for 
the Majority of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $7,110; in all, $28,440.

                   Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted under paragraph 1 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, section 112 of the Supplemental Appropriations and 
Rescission Act, 1980 (Public Law 96-304), and Senate Resolution 281, 
96th Congress, agreed to March 11, 1980, $131,305,860, of which 
$26,650,000 shall be available until September 30, 2014.

expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $487,822.

                        secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate 
$5,816,344 of which $4,200,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2016.

             sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate, $131,040,000, which shall remain available until 
September 30, 2016.

                          miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $14,860,000, which shall remain available 
until September 30, 2014.

        senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$396,180,000of which $18,921,206 shall remain available until September 
30, 2014.

                          official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$281,436.

                        administrative provision

                      payment of certain expenses

    Sec. 1. (a) In General.--Subject to the approval of the Committee 
on Appropriations of the Senate, if in any fiscal year amounts in any 
appropriations account under the heading ``SENATE'' under the heading 
``LEGISLATIVE BRANCH'' are available for more than 1 fiscal year, the 
Secretary of the Senate may establish procedures for the payment of 
expenses with respect to that account from any amounts available for 
that fiscal year.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2012 
and each fiscal year thereafter.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$1,226,680,000 (reduced by $1,000,000), as follows:

                        house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $23,275,773, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $6,942,770, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$2,277,595, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $7,432,812, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,971,050, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, 
$1,524,951, including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority 
Whip; Republican Conference, $1,572,788; Democratic Caucus, $1,553,807. 
In addition to the amounts made available above, for salaries and 
expenses under this heading, to be available during the period 
beginning September 30, 2012, and ending December 31, 2013; $5,818,948, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $1,735,694, including $6,250 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$569,399, including $2,500 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $1,858,205, including 
$2,500 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $492,763, 
including $1,250 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, $381,238, 
including $1,250 for official expenses of the Minority Whip; Republican 
Conference, $393,197; Democratic Caucus, $388,452.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

   Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                             Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $573,939,282.

                          Committee Employees

                Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $125,964,870:  Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2012.

                      Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$26,665,785, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed:  Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2012.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For salaries and expenses of officers and employees, as authorized 
by law, $177,628,400, including: for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Clerk, including not more than $23,000, of which not more 
than $20,000 is for the Family Room, for official representation and 
reception expenses, $26,114,400, of which $2,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent of 
Garages and the Office of Emergency Management, and including not more 
than $3,000 for official representation and reception expenses, 
$12,585,000 of which $4,445,000 shall remain available until expended; 
for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Chief Administrative 
Officer including not more than $3,000 for official representation and 
reception expenses, $116,782,000, of which $3,937,000 shall remain 
available until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Inspector General, $5,045,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of General Counsel, $1,415,000; for the Office of the Chaplain, 
$179,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian, $2,000 for preparing 
the Digest of Rules, and not more than $1,000 for official 
representation and reception expenses, $2,060,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, 
$3,258,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative 
Counsel of the House, $8,814,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, $859,000; for other authorized 
employees, $347,000; and for salaries and expenses of the Historian, 
$170,000.

                        Allowances and Expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $293,386,942 (reduced by $1,000,000), including: supplies, 
materials, administrative costs and Federal tort claims, $3,696,118; 
official mail for committees, leadership offices, and administrative 
offices of the House, $201,000; Government contributions for health, 
retirement, Social Security, and other applicable employee benefits, 
$264,848,219; Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery, $17,112,072, 
of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended; transition 
activities for new members and staff, $2,721,533 (reduced by 
$1,000,000); Wounded Warrior Program $2,500,000, to remain available 
until expended; Office of Congressional Ethics, $1,548,000; and 
miscellaneous items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair 
and operation of House motor vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, 
and gratuities to heirs of deceased employees of the House, $760,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances To Be Used for Deficit Reduction or To 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 2012. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for fiscal 
year 2012 shall be deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit 
reduction (or, if there is no Federal budget deficit after all such 
payments have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, in such manner 
as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).
    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations 
to carry out this section.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member of the 
House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, or a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

                      Republican Policy Committee

    Sec. 102. (a) Section 109(a) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2005 (2 U.S.C. 74a-13(a)) is amended by striking 
``the chair of the Republican Conference'' and inserting the following: 
``the Speaker of the House of Representatives (or, if the Speaker is 
not a member of the Republican Party, the Minority Leader of the House 
of Representatives)''.
    (b) Section 109(b) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 74a-13(b)) is amended by 
striking the period at the end and inserting the following: ``, and 
which shall be obligated and expended as directed by the Speaker (or, 
if the Speaker is not a member of the Republican party, the Minority 
Leader).''.
    (c) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2012 and each succeeding fiscal year.

   Authority of Speaker and Minority Leader to Allocate Funds Among 
                    Certain House Leadership Offices

    Sec. 103. (a) Authority of Speaker.--
            (1) Authority described.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law (including any provision of law that sets 
        forth an allowance for official expenses), the amount 
        appropriated or otherwise made available during a Congress for 
        the salaries and expenses of any office or authority described 
        in paragraph (2) shall be the amount allocated for such office 
        or authority by the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
        from the aggregate amount appropriated or otherwise made 
        available for all such offices and authorities.
            (2) Offices and authorities described.--The offices and 
        authorities described in this paragraph are as follows:
                    (A) The Office of the Speaker.
                    (B) The Speaker's Office for Legislative Floor 
                Activities.
                    (C) The Republican Steering Committee (if the 
                Speaker is a member of the Republican party) or the 
                Democratic Steering and Policy Committee (if the 
                Speaker is a member of the Democratic party).
                    (D) The Republican Policy Committee (if the Speaker 
                is a member of the Republican party).
                    (E) Training and program development--majority (as 
                described under the heading ``House leadership 
                offices'' in the most recent bill making appropriations 
                for the legislative branch that was enacted prior to 
                the date of the enactment of this Act).
                    (F) Cloakroom personnel--majority (as so 
                described).
    (b) Authority of Minority Leader.--
            (1) Authority described.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law (including any provision of law that sets 
        forth an allowance for official expenses), the amount 
        appropriated or otherwise made available during a Congress for 
        the salaries and expenses of any office or authority described 
        in paragraph (2) shall be the amount allocated for such office 
        or authority by the Minority Leader of the House of 
        Representatives from the aggregate amount appropriated or 
        otherwise made available for all such offices and authorities.
            (2) Offices and authorities described.--The offices and 
        authorities described in this paragraph are as follows:
                    (A) The Office of the Minority Leader.
                    (B) The Democratic Steering and Policy Committee 
                (if the Minority Leader is a member of the Democratic 
                party) or the Republican Steering Committee (if the 
                Minority Leader is a member of the Republican party).
                    (C) The Republican Policy Committee (if the 
                Minority Leader is a member of the Republican party).
                    (D) Training and program development--minority (as 
                described under the heading ``House leadership 
                offices'' in the most recent bill making appropriations 
                for the legislative branch that was enacted prior to 
                the date of the enactment of this Act).
                    (E) Cloakroom personnel--minority (as so 
                described).
                    (F) Nine minority employees (as so described).
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to any 
months occurring during the One Hundred Twelfth Congress that begin 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, and to any succeeding 
Congress.

 Republican Conference and the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee

    Sec. 104. (a) Section 103(b) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (2 U.S.C. 74a-8(b)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``Subject to the allocation described in subsection (c), 
        funds'' and inserting ``Funds'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``direct;'' and inserting 
        the following: ``direct (or, if the Speaker is not a member of 
        the Republican Party, under such terms and conditions as the 
        Minority Leader of the House of Representatives may direct);''; 
        and
            (3) in paragraph (2), by striking ``direct.'' and inserting 
        the following: ``direct (or, if the Speaker is a member of the 
        Democratic Party, under such terms and conditions as the 
        Speaker may direct).''.
    (b) Section 103 of such Act (2 U.S.C. 74a-8(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c); and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
    (c) The amendments made by this section shall take effect as if 
included in the enactment of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
1999.

  Transfer of House Emergency Planning, Preparedness, and Operations 
                     Functions to Sergeant at Arms

    Sec. 105.  Effective February 1, 2010--
            (1) section 905 of the Emergency Supplemental Act, 2002 (2 
        U.S.C. 130i) is repealed; and
            (2) the functions and responsibilities of the Office of 
        Emergency Planning, Preparedness and Operations under section 
        905 of such Act are transferred and assigned to the Sergeant at 
        Arms of the House of Representatives. 

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,490,002, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

     Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies of 2013

    For salaries and expenses associated with conducting the inaugural 
ceremonies of the President and Vice President of the United States, 
January 20, 2013, in accordance with such program as may be adopted by 
the joint congressional committee authorized to conduct the inaugural 
ceremonies of 2013, $1,237,000 to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate and to remain available until September 30, 2013. Funds made 
available under this heading shall be available for payment, on a 
direct or reimbursable basis, whether incurred on, before, or after, 
October 1, 2012:  Provided, That the compensation of any employee of 
the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate who has been 
designated to perform service with respect to the inaugural ceremonies 
of 2013 shall continue to be paid by the Committee on Rules and 
Administration, but the account from which such staff member is paid 
may be reimbursed for the services of the staff member (including 
agency contributions when appropriate) out of funds made available 
under this heading.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$10,761,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives.

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including:
            (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
        Physician;
            (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior Medical 
        Officer;
            (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three medical 
        officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending 
        Physician;
            (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 
        per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis 
        heretofore provided for such assistants; and
            (5) $2,427,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
        Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to 
        the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced 
        and credited to the applicable appropriation or appropriations 
        from which such salaries, allowances, and other expenses are 
        payable and shall be available for all the purposes thereof, 
        $3,403,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer 
        of the House of Representatives.

             Office of Congressional Accessibility Services

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,363,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.

                          technical correction

    Sec. 1001. (a) In General.--Section 102(a) of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 2002 (2 U.S.C. 60c-5(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, except as provided 
        under subsection (b)(3)'' after ``means an individual''; and
            (2) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(2) Employee of the senate.--The term `employee of the 
        Senate'--
                    ``(A) has the meaning given the term under section 
                101 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 
                U.S.C. 1301); and
                    ``(B) includes any employee of the Office of 
                Congressional Accessibility Services whose pay is 
                disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.
            ``(3) Employing office.--The term `employing office'--
                    ``(A) means the employing office, as defined under 
                section 101 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
                1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301), of an employee of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) includes the Office of Congressional 
                Accessibility Services with respect to employees of 
                that office whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of 
                the Senate.''.
    (b) Exclusion From Participation in Dual Programs.--Section 102(b) 
of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2002 (2 U.S.C. 60c-5(b)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Exclusion from participation in dual programs.--
        Notwithstanding section 5379 of title 5, United States Code, an 
        employee of the Office of Congressional Accessibility Services 
        may not participate in the student loan repayment program 
        through an agreement under that section and participate in the 
        student loan repayment program through a service agreement 
        under this section at the same time.''.
    (c) Effective Date and Application.--The amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act and 
apply to service agreements entered into under section 102 of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2002 (2 U.S.C. 60c-5) or section 
5379 of title 5, United States Code, on or after that date.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime, hazardous duty pay differential, and Government contributions 
for health, retirement, social security, professional liability 
insurance, and other applicable employee benefits, $276,929,583, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation 
of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $54,473,325, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of 
basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for fiscal year 2012 shall be paid by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland 
Security.

                        Administrative Provision

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 1101.  Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2012 for the 
Capitol Police may be transferred between the headings ``Salaries'' and 
``General expenses'' upon the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,870,499, of which $884,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2013:  Provided, That not more than $500 
may be expended on the certification of the Executive Director of the 
Office of Compliance in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $44,409,000.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         General Administration

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and studies in 
connection with activities under the care of the Architect of the 
Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and administrative 
support of the operations under the Architect of the Capitol including 
the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and 
House office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of 
the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and office 
equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol 
may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a 
passenger motor vehicle, $94,980,000, of which $3,700,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2016.

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $29,056,000, of which $5,063,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2016.

                            Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $8,837,000.

                        Senate Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be 
expended under the control and supervision of the Architect of the 
Capitol, $66,453,000, of which $13,128,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2016.

                         House Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $89,154,000, of which $40,631,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2016. In addition, for a payment 
to the House Historic Buildings Revitalization Trust Fund, $30,000,000, 
shall remain available until expended.

                          Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $113,139,000, of which $15,406,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2016:  Provided, That not more than 
$8,000,000 of the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this 
appropriation as herein provided shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2012.

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$27,762,000 of which $4,100,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2016.

             Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds and Security

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United States 
Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computer Facility, and 
AOC security operations, $18,212,000, of which $2,473,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2016.

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $9,582,000:  Provided, That of the 
amount made available under this heading, the Architect of the Capitol 
may obligate and expend such sums as may be necessary for the 
maintenance, care and operation of the National Garden established 
under section 307E of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 
(2 U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved by the Architect of the Capitol 
or a duly authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the Capitol Visitor 
Center, $19,438,000.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; activities 
under the Civil Rights History Project Act of 2009; preparation and 
distribution of catalog records and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $411,848,000, of which not 
more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2012, and shall remain available until 
expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 
U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2012 and shall remain available until 
expended for the development and maintenance of an international legal 
information database and activities related thereto:  Provided, That 
the Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived 
from collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than $6,350,000: 
 Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, not more than 
$12,000 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for the Overseas Field Offices:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $6,959,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the digital collections and educational curricula program.

                            Copyright Office

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $53,533,000, of 
which not more than $30,573,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2012 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code:  
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any 
funds derived from collections under such section, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That not more than $5,966,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2012 under sections 111(d)(2), 
119(b)(2), 803(e), 1005, and 1316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
amount by which collections are less than $36,539,000:  Provided 
further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is 
available for the maintenance of an ``International Copyright 
Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the 
purpose of training nationals of developing countries in intellectual 
property laws and policies:  Provided further, That not more than 
$4,250 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for activities of the International Copyright Institute and 
for copyright delegations, visitors, and seminars:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United 
States Code, any amounts made available under this heading which are 
attributable to royalty fees and payments received by the Copyright 
Office pursuant to sections 111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may 
be used for the costs incurred in the administration of the Copyright 
Royalty Judges program, with the exception of the costs of salaries and 
benefits for the Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under section 
802(e).

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $105,819,000:  Provided, That no part of such amount may be 
used to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, 
or preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public 
General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such 
publication has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $50,860,000, of which 
$31,347,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
the total amount appropriated, $605,150 shall be available to contract 
to provide newspapers to blind and physically handicapped residents at 
no cost to the individual.

                       Administrative Provisions

               reimbursable and revolving fund activities

    Sec. 1301 (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2012, the obligational 
authority of the Library of Congress for the activities described in 
subsection (b) may not exceed $169,725,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources 
other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.
    (c) Transfer of Funds.--During fiscal year 2012, the Librarian of 
Congress may temporarily transfer funds appropriated in this Act, under 
the heading ``Library of Congress'', under the subheading ``Salaries 
and Expenses'', to the revolving fund for the FEDLINK Program and the 
Federal Research Program established under section 103 of the Library 
of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-
481; 2 U.S.C. 182c):  Provided, That the total amount of such transfers 
may not exceed $1,900,000:  Provided further, That the appropriate 
revolving fund account shall reimburse the Library for any amounts 
transferred to it before the period of availability of the Library 
appropriation expires.

                           transfer authority

    Sec. 1302 (a) In General.--Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 
2012 for the Library of Congress may be transferred during fiscal year 
2012 between any of the headings under the heading ``Library of 
Congress'' upon the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives.
    (b) Limitation.--Not more than 10 percent of the total amount of 
funds appropriated to the account under any heading under the heading 
``Library of Congress'' for fiscal year 2012 may be transferred from 
that account by all transfers made under subsection (a).

           funds available for workers compensation payments

    Sec. 1303. (a) In General.--Available balances of expired Library 
of Congress appropriations shall be available to the Library of 
Congress to make the deposit to the credit of the Employees' 
Compensation Fund required by subsection 8147(b) of title 5, United 
States Code.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
appropriations for fiscal year 2012 and each fiscal year thereafter.

   proceeds from disposition of surplus or obsolete personal property

    Sec. 1304 (a) In General.--Within the limits of available 
appropriations, the Librarian of Congress may dispose of surplus or 
obsolete personal property of the Library of Congress by inter-agency 
transfer, donation, sale, trade-in, or discarding. Amounts received for 
the sale or trade in of personal property shall be credited to funds 
available for the operations of the Library of Congress and be 
available for the costs of acquiring similar property. Such funds shall 
be available for such purposes during the fiscal year received and the 
following fiscal year.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
fiscal year 2012 and each fiscal year thereafter.

                   nonappropriated funds initiatives

    Sec. 1305. (a) Revolving Funds.--The Library of Congress Fiscal 
Operations Improvement Act of 2000 (2 U.S.C. 182a et seq.; Public Law 
106-481) is amended--
            (1) in section 101 (2 U.S.C. 182a)--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking 
                ``duplication'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``duplication and delivery 
                        services provided by'' and inserting ``the 
                        following programs and activities of'';
                            (ii) by striking the period and inserting a 
                        colon; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(1) Duplication and delivery services.
            ``(2) Storage of audiovisual materials.''; and
            (2) in section 102(a) (2 U.S.C. 182b(a)), by adding at the 
        end the following:
            ``(5) Traveling exhibitions.
            ``(6) Training.''.
    (b) Gifts.--Section 4 of the Act entitled ``An Act to create a 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board, and for other purposes'', 
approved March 3, 1925 (2 U.S.C. 160), is amended--
            (1) in the first undesignated paragraph--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                            (i) by striking ``Nothing'' and inserting 
                        ``(a) In General.--Nothing'';
                            (ii) by striking ``gifts or bequests of 
                        money for immediate disbursement'' and 
                        inserting ``and''; and
                            (iii) by inserting ``, gifts or bequests of 
                        personal property, nonpersonal services, 
                        voluntary and uncompensated personal services, 
                        or money for immediate disbursement'' before 
                        the period;
                    (B) in the second sentence, by inserting ``of 
                money'' after ``bequests'';
                    (C) in the third sentence, by striking ``enter 
                them'' and inserting ``enter the gift, bequest, or 
                proceeds''; and
                    (D) by inserting ``In the case of a gift of 
                securities, the librarian shall sell the securities and 
                provide the donor with a receipt from the proceeds of 
                the sale.'' after the second sentence; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Reporting, Disclosure, and Notification Requirements.--
            ``(1) Reporting and disclosure.--
                    ``(A) Issuance.--Each year the Librarian of 
                Congress shall issue a public report that discloses--
                            ``(i) each gift or bequest accepted under 
                        subsection (a), including each gift or bequest 
                        of personal property, nonpersonal services, 
                        voluntary and uncompensated personal services, 
                        or money for immediate disbursement; and
                            ``(ii) details of any financial transaction 
                        required under subsection (a) relating to each 
                        of those gifts or bequests.
                    ``(B) Publication.--Each public report issued under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be published in the Annual 
                Report of the Librarian of Congress and the annual 
                Financial Statements of the Library of Congress, with 
                specific pagination of each gift or bequest listed in 
                the table of contents or index.
                    ``(C) Website public access.--The Annual Report of 
                the Librarian of Congress and the annual Financial 
                Statements of the Library of Congress, including the 
                public report issued under subparagraph (A), shall be 
                posted on the website of the Library of Congress for 
                public access.
            ``(2) Notification.--Not later than 5 business days before 
        acceptance or rejection of any gift or bequest under subsection 
        (a), the Librarian of Congress shall notify the Chairman and 
        the Vice-Chairman of the Joint Committee on the Library of--
                    ``(A) the determination of the Librarian of 
                Congress to accept or reject that gift or bequest; and
                    ``(B) if the gift or bequest is accepted, the 
                details of all financial transactions relating to that 
                gift or bequest.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to fiscal year 2012, and each fiscal year 
thereafter.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional 
Record, as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, United States 
Code); printing and binding of Government publications authorized by 
law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, 
and distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $81,314,000:  Provided, 
That this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations 
incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year 
limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of 
the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in 
this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years may be transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving 
fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate.

                 Office of Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $35,000,000:  Provided, That 
amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year appropriations 
are authorized for producing and disseminating congressional serial 
sets and other related publications for fiscal years 2010 and 2011 to 
depository and other designated libraries:  Provided further, That any 
unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or accounts for 
similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund for carrying out the purposes 
of this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

               Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    For payment to the Government Printing Office Revolving Fund, 
$500,000 for information technology development:  Provided, That the 
Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund:  Provided further, That not 
more than $7,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public 
Printer in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses:  Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available 
for the hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles:  
Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses 
of the advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed 
necessary to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code:  
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That activities financed through the revolving fund may provide 
information in any format:  Provided further, That the revolving fund 
and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of 
Documents'' and ``Salaries and Expenses'' may not be used for 
contracted security services at GPO's passport facility in the District 
of Columbia.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability Office, 
including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of 
the Comptroller General of the United States in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses; temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; 
advance payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 
of title 31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable 
under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations prescribed by 
the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living quarters 
in foreign countries, $504,518,000:  Provided, That in addition, 
$18,304,000 of payments received under sections 782, 3521, and 9105 of 
title 31, United States Code, shall be available without fiscal year 
limitation:  Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum 
or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by 
the respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-
Federal participants:  Provided further, That payments hereunder to the 
Forum may be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which 
costs involved are initially financed.

                OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under section 
313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), 
$10,000,000.

   JOHN C. STENNIS CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

    For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service 
Development Trust Fund established under section 116 of the John C. 
Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development Act (2 
U.S.C. 1105), $430,000.

                                TITLE II

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                maintenance and care of private vehicles

    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.

                         fiscal year limitation

    Sec. 202.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2012 unless 
expressly so provided in this Act.

                 rates of compensation and designation

    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 
32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or 
designation of any office or position appropriated for is different 
from that specifically established by such Act, the rate of 
compensation and the designation in this Act shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto:  Provided, That the provisions in this Act for 
the various items of official expenses of Members, officers, and 
committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, and clerk hire 
for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives shall be the 
permanent law with respect thereto.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order issued under existing law.

                         awards and settlements

    Sec. 205.  Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of the Congressional 
Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1415(a)) to pay awards and 
settlements as authorized under such subsection.

                             costs of lbfmc

    Sec. 206.  Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $2,000.

                         landscape maintenance

    Sec. 207.  The Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the 
District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the 
landscape features, excluding streets, in the irregular shaped grassy 
areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW, on the northeast, Second 
Street, SW, on the west, Square 582 on the south, and the beginning of 
the I-395 tunnel on the southeast.

                        limitation on transfers

    Sec. 208.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.

                      guided tours of the capitol

    Sec. 209. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act may be 
used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States Capitol 
which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of 
Congress and other offices of the House of Representatives and Senate.
    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at the 
direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 210.  Of the unobligated balances available from prior year 
appropriations under the heading ``Architect of the 
Capitol''$17,482,000 are hereby rescinded.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2012''.
                                                       Calendar No. 172

112th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 2551

                          [Report No. 112-80]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2012, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 22, 2011

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                           September 15, 2011

                       Reported with an amendment
