
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 146 Engrossed in House (EH)]

112th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. CON. RES. 146

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That when the House adjourns on the legislative day of Friday, December 
21, 2012, on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by 
its Majority Leader or his designee, it stand adjourned until 2 p.m. on 
Thursday, December 27, 2012, or until the time of any reassembly 
pursuant to section 2 of this


              

 concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first; and that when the 
Senate recesses or adjourns on the legislative day of Friday, December 
21, 2012, or Saturday, December 22, 2012, on a motion offered pursuant 
to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, 
it stand recessed or adjourned until noon on Thursday, December 27, 
2012, or such other time on that day as may be specified in the motion 
to recess or adjourn, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to 
section 2 of this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2.  The Speaker of the House and the Majority Leader of the 
Senate, or their respective designees, acting jointly after 
consultation with the Minority Leader of the House and the Minority 
Leader of the Senate, shall notify the Members of the House and the 
Senate, respectively, to reassemble at such place and time as they may 
designate if, in their opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.

            Passed the House of Representatives December 21, 2012.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
112th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                            H. CON. RES. 146

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

Providing for a conditional adjournment of the House of Representatives 
         and a conditional recess or adjournment of the Senate.
