
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 147 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 147

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        March 17, 2011.
    Resolved,

SECTION 1. COMMITTEE EXPENSES FOR THE ONE HUNDRED TWELFTH CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--With respect to the One Hundred Twelfth Congress, there 
shall be paid out of the applicable accounts of the House of Representatives, in 
accordance with this primary expense resolution, not more than the amount 
specified in subsection (b) for the expenses (including the expenses of all 
staff salaries) of each committee named in such subsection.
    (b) Committees and Amounts.--The committees and amounts referred to in 
subsection (a) are: Committee on Agriculture, $12,235,047; Committee on Armed 
Services, $15,050,528; Committee on the Budget, $12,066,370; Committee on 
Education and the Workforce, $16,692,508; Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
$22,409,582; Committee on Ethics, $5,868,311; Committee on Financial Services, 
$17,399,282; Committee on Foreign Affairs, $17,904,940; Committee on Homeland 
Security, $16,887,448; Committee on House Administration, $10,516,013; Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence, $10,307,500; Committee on the Judiciary, 
$16,802,812; Committee on Natural Resources, $15,739,532; Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform, $21,226,108; Committee on Rules, $6,783,970; Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology, $13,346,273; Committee on Small Business, 
$6,874,000; Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, $19,830,446; 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs, $7,285,256; and Committee on Ways and Means, 
$19,602,731.

SEC. 2. FIRST SESSION LIMITATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Of the amount provided for in section 1 for each committee 
named in subsection (b), not more than the amount specified in such subsection 
shall be available for expenses incurred during the period beginning at noon on 
January 3, 2011, and ending immediately before noon on January 3, 2012.
    (b) Committees and Amounts.--The committees and amounts referred to in 
subsection (a) are: Committee on Agriculture, $6,189,494; Committee on Armed 
Services, $7,525,264; Committee on the Budget, $6,033,185; Committee on 
Education and the Workforce, $8,346,254; Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
$10,980,940; Committee on Ethics, $2,824,535; Committee on Financial Services, 
$8,441,264; Committee on Foreign Affairs, $8,952,470; Committee on Homeland 
Security, $8,443,724; Committee on House Administration, $4,949,176; Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence, $5,153,750; Committee on the Judiciary, 
$8,401,406; Committee on Natural Resources, $7,869,766; Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform, $10,613,054; Committee on Rules, $3,391,985; Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology, $6,685,637; Committee on Small Business, 
$3,214,891; Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, $9,915,223; 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs, $3,602,745; and Committee on Ways and Means, 
$9,801,365.

SEC. 3. SECOND SESSION LIMITATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Of the amount provided for in section 1 for each committee 
named in subsection (b), not more than the amount specified in such subsection 
shall be available for expenses incurred during the period beginning at noon on 
January 3, 2012, and ending immediately before noon on January 3, 2013.
    (b) Committees and Amounts.--The committees and amounts referred to in 
subsection (a) are: Committee on Agriculture, $6,045,553; Committee on Armed 
Services, $7,525,264; Committee on the Budget, $6,033,185; Committee on 
Education and the Workforce, $8,346,254; Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
$11,428,642; Committee on Ethics, $3,043,776; Committee on Financial Services, 
$8,958,018; Committee on Foreign Affairs, $8,952,470; Committee on Homeland 
Security, $8,443,724; Committee on House Administration, $5,566,837; Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence, $5,153,750; Committee on the Judiciary, 
$8,401,406; Committee on Natural Resources, $7,869,766; Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform, $10,613,054; Committee on Rules, $3,391,985; Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology, $6,660,637; Committee on Small Business, 
$3,659,109; Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, $9,915,223; 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs, $3,682,512; and Committee on Ways and Means, 
$9,801,366.
    (c) Review of Use of Funds in First Session.--None of the amounts provided 
for in section 1 for a committee named in subsection (b) may be available for 
expenses of the committee after March 15, 2012, unless the chair or ranking 
minority member of the committee appears and presents testimony at a hearing of 
the Committee on House Administration held prior to such date to review the 
committee's use of the amounts provided for in section 1 during the first 
session of the One Hundred Twelfth Congress and to determine whether the amount 
specified in subsection (b) with respect to the committee should be updated on 
the basis of the review.

SEC. 4. VOUCHERS.

    Payments under this resolution shall be made on vouchers authorized by the 
committee involved, signed by the chairman of such committee, and approved in 
the manner directed by the Committee on House Administration.

SEC. 5. REGULATIONS.

    Amounts made available under this resolution shall be expended in accordance 
with regulations prescribed by the Committee on House Administration.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
