
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Con. Res. 1 Agreed to Senate (ATS)]

112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. CON. RES. 1

Providing for a conditional recess or adjournment of the Senate and an 
              adjournment of the House of Representatives.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            January 5, 2011

   Mr. Reid submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was 
                        considered and agreed to

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION


 
Providing for a conditional recess or adjournment of the Senate and an 
              adjournment of the House of Representatives.

    Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), 
That (a) when the Senate adjourns or recesses on any day from 
Wednesday, January 5, 2011, through Monday, January 10, 2011, on a 
motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its majority 
leader or his designee, it stand adjourned or recessed until 10 a.m. on 
Tuesday, January 25, 2011, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant 
to section 2 of this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first; and
     (b) when the House adjourns on the legislative day of Wednesday, 
January 12, 2011, on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent 
resolution by its majority leader or his designee, it stand adjourned 
until 2 p.m. on Tuesday, January 18, 2011, or until the time of any 
reassembly pursuant to section 3 of this concurrent resolution, 
whichever occurs first; and when the House adjourns on any legislative 
day from Wednesday, January 26, 2011, through Friday, January 28, 2011, 
on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its 
majority leader or his designee, it stand adjourned until 2 p.m. on 
Tuesday, February 8, 2011, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant 
to section 3 of this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2. (a) The majority leader of the Senate, or his designee, 
after consultation with the minority leader of the Senate, or his 
designee, shall notify the Members of the Senate to reassemble at such 
place and time as he may designate if, in his opinion, the public 
interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the Senate 
recesses or adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by 
its majority leader or his designee, the Senate shall again stand 
recessed or adjourned pursuant to the first section of this concurrent 
resolution.
    Sec. 3.  The Speaker or his designee, after consultation with the 
minority leader of the House, shall notify Members of the House to 
reassemble at such place and time as he may designate if, in his 
opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
                                 <all>
