
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 294 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 294

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          June 3, 2011.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order 
without intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the 
resolution (H. Res. 292) declaring that the President shall not deploy, 
establish, or maintain the presence of units and members of the United States 
Armed Forces on the ground in Libya, and for other purposes. The resolution 
shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the resolution to its adoption without intervening motion or demand 
for division of the question except one hour of debate, with 40 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs, 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed Services.
    Sec. 2.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without 
intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the concurrent 
resolution (H. Con. Res. 51) directing the President, pursuant to section 5(c) 
of the War Powers Resolution, to remove the United States Armed Forces from 
Libya, if called up by the chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or her 
designee. The concurrent resolution shall be considered as read. The concurrent 
resolution shall be debatable for one hour, with 30 minutes controlled by 
Representative Ros-Lehtinen of Florida or her designee and 30 minutes controlled 
by Representative Kucinich of Ohio or his designee. The previous question shall 
be considered as ordered on the concurrent resolution to its adoption without 
intervening motion.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
