
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1255 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                        Calendar No. 29
112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1255


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 4, 2011

                                Received

                             April 5, 2011

                          Read the first time

                             April 8, 2011

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To prevent a shutdown of the government of the United States, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Government Shutdown Prevention Act 
of 2011''.

SEC. 2. FUNDING THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE REMAINDER OF FISCAL YEAR 2011.

    (a) Deadline for Consideration of Legislation Funding the 
Government for the Remainder of Fiscal Year 2011.--If the House has not 
received a message from the Senate before April 6, 2011, stating that 
it has passed a measure providing for the appropriations for the 
departments and agencies of the Government for the remainder of fiscal 
year 2011, the provisions of H.R. 1, as passed by the House on February 
19, 2011, are hereby enacted into law.
    (b) Publication of Act.--In publishing this Act in slip form and in 
the United States Statutes at Large pursuant to section 112 of title 1, 
United States Code, the Archivist of the United States shall include 
after the date of approval, if applicable, an appendix setting forth 
the text of the bill referred to in subsection (a).

SEC. 3. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN PAYMENTS TO MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND THE 
              PRESIDENT.

    (a) Treatment of Members During a Government Shutdown.--The 
Secretary of the Senate and the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House, respectively, shall not disburse to each Member or Delegate the 
amount of his or her salary for each day that--
            (1) there is more than a 24-hour lapse in appropriations 
        for any Federal agency or department as a result of a failure 
        to enact a regular appropriations bill or continuing 
        resolution; or
            (2) the Federal Government is unable to make payments or 
        meet obligations because the public debt limit under section 
        3101 of title 31, United States Code, has been reached.
    (b) Treatment of the President During a Government Shutdown.--The 
President shall not receive a disbursement of basic pay for any period 
in which--
            (1) there is more than a 24-hour lapse in appropriations 
        for any Federal agency or department as a result of a failure 
        to enact a regular appropriations bill or continuing 
        resolution; or
            (2) the Federal Government is unable to make payments or 
        meet obligations because the public debt limit under section 
        3101 of title 31, United States Code, has been reached.

            Passed the House of Representatives April 1, 2011.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
                                                        Calendar No. 29

112th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 1255

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 To prevent a shutdown of the government of the United States, and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             April 8, 2011

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
