
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 773 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 773

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 11, 2012.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5544) to authorize and expedite a land exchange involving National 
Forest System land in the Laurentian District of the Superior National Forest 
and certain other National Forest System land in the State of Minnesota that has 
limited recreational and conservation resources and lands owned by the State of 
Minnesota in trust for the public school system that are largely scattered in 
checkerboard fashion within the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness and have 
important recreational, scenic, and conservation resources, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural 
Resources. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on Natural Resources now printed in the bill, an 
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules 
Committee Print 112-30, modified by the amendment printed in part A of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be 
considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as the original bill for the purpose of further 
amendment under the five-minute rule and shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No further 
amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order except those printed in 
part B of the report of the Committee on Rules. Each such further amendment may 
be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable 
for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be 
subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are 
waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House with such 
further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5949) to extend the FISA Amendments Act of 
2008 for five years. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee 
on the Judiciary now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The 
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any amendment thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate, with 40 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on the Judiciary and 20 minutes equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
