
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 591 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 591

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        March 21, 2012.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5) to improve patient access to health care services and provide 
improved medical care by reducing the excessive burden the liability system 
places on the health care delivery system. The first reading of the bill shall 
be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and amendments specified in 
this resolution and shall not exceed six hours equally divided among and 
controlled by the respective chairs and ranking minority members of the 
Committees on Energy and Commerce, the Judiciary, and Ways and Means. After 
general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. In lieu of the amendments recommended by the Committees on Energy and 
Commerce and the Judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 112-18 shall be 
considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as the original bill for the purpose of further 
amendment under the five-minute rule and shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No further 
amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order except those printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such further 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are 
waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House with such 
further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and any further amendment thereto 
to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
