
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2433 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2433


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 13, 2011

Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To amend title 38, United States Code, to make certain improvements in 
 the laws relating to the employment and training of veterans, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans 
Opportunity to Work Act of 2011''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
                      TITLE I--RETRAINING VETERANS

Sec. 101. Veterans retraining assistance program.
         TITLE II--IMPROVING THE TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

Sec. 201. Transition Assistance Program contracting.
Sec. 202. Mandatory participation in Transition Assistance Program.
Sec. 203. Report on Transition Assistance Program.
Sec. 204. Transition Assistance Program outcomes.
Sec. 205. Comptroller General review.
 TITLE III--IMPROVING THE TRANSITION OF VETERANS TO CIVILIAN EMPLOYMENT

Sec. 301. Reauthorization and improvement of demonstration project on 
                            credentialing and licensure of veterans.
Sec. 302. Inclusion of performance measures in annual report on veteran 
                            job counseling, training, and placement 
                            programs of the Department of Labor.
Sec. 303. Clarification of priority of service for veterans in 
                            Department of Labor job training programs.
Sec. 304. Evaluation of individuals receiving training at the National 
                            Veterans' Employment and Training Services 
                            Institute.
Sec. 305. Requirements for full-time disabled veterans' outreach 
                            program specialists and local veterans' 
                            employment representatives.
Sec. 306. Report on findings of the Department of Defense and 
                            Department of Labor credentialing work 
                            group.
      TITLE IV--IMPROVEMENTS TO UNIFORMED SERVICES EMPLOYMENT AND 
                          REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS

Sec. 401. Clarification of benefits of employment covered under USERRA.
                         TITLE V--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 501. Extension of certain expiring provisions of law.
Sec. 502. Department of Veterans Affairs housing loan guarantees for 
                            surviving spouses of certain totally 
                            disabled veterans.
Sec. 503. Reimbursement rate for ambulance services.
Sec. 504. Annual reports on Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program 
                            and Survivors' and Dependents' Educational 
                            Assistance Program.
Sec. 505. Limitation on amount authorized to be appropriated for 
                            employee travel, printing, and fleet 
                            vehicles.
Sec. 506. Extension of reduced pension for certain veterans covered by 
                            Medicaid plans for services furnished by 
                            nursing facilities.
Sec. 507. Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.

                      TITLE I--RETRAINING VETERANS

SEC. 101. VETERANS RETRAINING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Program Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with this section, during 
        the period beginning on June 1, 2012, and ending on March 31, 
        2014, the Secretary of Labor shall provide for monthly payments 
        of retraining assistance to eligible veterans. Payments of 
        retraining assistance under this section shall be made by the 
        Secretary of Labor through the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
            (2) Number of eligible veterans.--The number of eligible 
        veterans who participate in the program may not exceed--
                    (A) 45,000 during fiscal year 2012; and
                    (B) 55,000 during the period beginning October 1, 
                2012, and ending March 31, 2014.
    (b) Retraining Assistance.--Except as provided by subsection (i), 
each veteran who participates in the program established under 
subsection (a)(1) shall be entitled to up to 12 months of retraining 
assistance, as determined by the Secretary of Labor. Such retraining 
assistance may only be used by the veteran to pursue a program of 
education (as such term is defined in section 3452(b) of title 38, 
United States Code) or training on a full-time basis that--
            (1) is approved under chapter 36 of such title;
            (2) is offered by a community college or technical school;
            (3) leads to an associates degree or a certificate (or 
        other similar evidence of the completion of the program of 
        education or training); and
            (4) is designed to provide training for a high-demand 
        occupation, as determined by the Secretary of Labor.
    (c) Monthly Certification.--Each veteran who participates in the 
program established under subsection (a)(1) shall certify to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs the enrollment of the veteran in a 
program of education described in subsection (b) for each month in 
which the veteran participates in the program.
    (d) Amount of Assistance.--The monthly amount of the retraining 
assistance payable under this section is the amount in effect under 
section 3015(a)(1) of title 38, United States Code.
    (e) Eligibility.--For purposes of this section, an eligible veteran 
is a veteran who--
            (1) is at least 35 years of age but not more than 60 years 
        of age;
            (2) was last discharged from active duty service in the 
        Armed Forces with an honorable discharge;
            (3) as of the date of the submittal of the application for 
        assistance under this section, has been unemployed for a period 
        of time determined by the Secretary, with special consideration 
        given to veterans who have been unemployed for at least 26 
        continuous weeks;
            (4) is not eligible to apply for educational assistance 
        under chapter 30, 31, 33, or 35 of title 38, United States 
        Code; and
            (5) by not later than October 1, 2013, submits to the 
        Secretary of Labor an application containing such information 
        and assurances as the Secretary may require.
    (f) Report.--Not later than July 1, 2014, the Secretary of Labor 
and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall jointly submit to the 
Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the retraining assistance provided under 
this section, including--
            (1) the total number of--
                    (A) eligible veterans who participated;
                    (B) credit hours completed; and
                    (C) associates degrees or certificates awarded (or 
                other similar evidence of the completion of the program 
                of education or training earned); and
            (2) data related to the employment status of eligible 
        veterans who participated.
    (g) Joint Agreement.--The Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall enter into an agreement on carrying out this 
section.
    (h) Source of Funds.--Payments under this section shall be made 
from amounts appropriated to the readjustment benefits account of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (i) Termination of Authority.--The authority to make payments under 
this section shall terminate on March 31, 2014.

         TITLE II--IMPROVING THE TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

SEC. 201. TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM CONTRACTING.

    (a) Transition Assistance Program Contracting.--
            (1) In general.--Section 4113 of title 38, United States 
        Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 4113. Transition Assistance Program personnel
    ``(a) Authority To Contract.--In accordance with section 1144 of 
title 10, the Secretary shall enter into a contract with an appropriate 
private entity or entities to provide the functions described in 
subsection (b) at all locations where the program described in such 
section is carried out.
    ``(b) Functions.--Contractors under subsection (a) shall provide to 
members of the Armed Forces who are being separated from active duty 
(and the spouses of such members) the services described in section 
1144(a)(1) of title 10, including--
            ``(1) counseling;
            ``(2) assistance in identifying employment and training 
        opportunities and help in obtaining such employment and 
        training;
            ``(3) other related information and services under such 
        section; and
            ``(4) any other services that the Secretary determines are 
        appropriate.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 41 of title 38, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 4113 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``4113. Transition Assistance Program personnel.''.
    (b) Deadline for Implementation.--The Secretary of Labor shall 
enter into the contract required by section 4113 of title 38, United 
States Code, as added by subsection (a), by not later than 24 months 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 202. MANDATORY PARTICIPATION IN TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    Section 1144(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``shall encourage'' and all that follows and inserting ``shall 
encourage the participation of members of the armed forces in pay 
grades E-8 and above and O-6 and above who are eligible for assistance 
under the program and shall require the participation of all other 
members of the armed forces who are eligible for assistance under the 
program unless a documented urgent operational requirement prevents 
attendance or an individual service member, with written approval of 
their commander, chooses to decline participation, in writing, based on 
post-service employment or acceptance to an education program. Such 
documentation shall be included in the personnel record of the 
member.''.

SEC. 203. REPORT ON TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    Section 1144 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Reports and Audits.--(1) Not later than January 30 of each 
year, the Secretary of Labor shall submit to the Committees on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report 
on the program established under this section that includes the number 
of members of the armed forces eligible for assistance under the 
program who participated in the program within 30, 90, and 180 days of 
being separated from active duty, and the percentages of all such 
eligible participants who participated within each such time period.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary of Labor shall enter into a contract with an 
appropriate entity to conduct an audit of the program established under 
this section not less frequently than once every three years and to 
submit to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Labor, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Committees on Veterans' Affairs 
of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing the 
results of each such audit.
    ``(B)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), the Secretary of Labor 
shall enter into the contract under subparagraph (A) with an 
appropriate entity that is a small business concern owned and 
controlled by veterans or a small business concern owned and controlled 
by service-disabled veterans and that is included in the database of 
veteran-owned businesses maintained under subsection (f) of section 
8127 of title 38 and verified by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph 
(4) of that subsection.
    ``(ii) If the Secretary of Labor is unable to enter into the 
contract under subparagraph (A) with a qualified business concern 
described in clause (i), the Secretary shall enter into such contract 
with another qualified appropriate entity.
    ``(C) The Secretary of Labor shall enter into the contract under 
this paragraph using funds made available for the State grant program 
authorized under section 4102A of title 38.''.

SEC. 204. TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM OUTCOMES.

    Section 1144 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 
202 and 203, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(f) Program Outcomes.--The Secretary of Labor shall develop a 
method to assess the outcomes for individuals who participate in the 
program established under this section. The Secretary of Defense shall 
provide to the Secretary of Labor any data on participation in the 
program that is necessary for the Secretary of Labor to develop such 
method. Such method shall be designed to determine the following 
outcomes:
            ``(1) The length of the period during which the individual 
        was unemployed following the individual's separation from 
        active duty.
            ``(2) The beginning salary paid to the individual for the 
        first job the individual obtained following such separation.
            ``(3) The number of months of school or other training the 
        individual attended during the first 12-month period following 
        such separation.''.

SEC. 205. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a 
review of the Transition Assistance Program under section 1144 of title 
10, United States Code, and submit to Congress a report on the results 
of the review and any recommendations of the Comptroller General for 
improving the program.

 TITLE III--IMPROVING THE TRANSITION OF VETERANS TO CIVILIAN EMPLOYMENT

SEC. 301. REAUTHORIZATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF DEMONSTRATION PROJECT ON 
              CREDENTIALING AND LICENSURE OF VETERANS.

    Section 4114 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``not less than 
                10'' and inserting ``not less than 5 but not more than 
                10''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``consult with 
                appropriate Federal, State, and industry officials'' 
                and inserting ``enter into a contract with an 
                appropriate entity representing a coalition of State 
                governors'';
            (2) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) by striking ``Veterans Benefits, Health Care, 
                and Information Technology Act of 2006'' and inserting 
                the ``Veterans Opportunity to Work Act of 2011''; and
                    (B) by striking ``September 30, 2009'' and 
                inserting ``September 30, 2014'';
            (3) in subsection (h)--
                    (A) by striking ``utilizing unobligated funds'' and 
                inserting ``using not more than $180,000 of the funds 
                in each fiscal year''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, to be derived from amounts otherwise 
                made available to carry out sections 4103A and 4104 of 
                this title''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Report to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after the last 
day of a fiscal year during which the demonstration project under this 
section is carried out, the Assistant Secretary, in coordination with 
the entity with which the Assistant Secretary enters into a contract 
under subsection (b)(2), shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' 
Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the 
implementation of the demonstration project during that fiscal year.''.

SEC. 302. INCLUSION OF PERFORMANCE MEASURES IN ANNUAL REPORT ON VETERAN 
              JOB COUNSELING, TRAINING, AND PLACEMENT PROGRAMS OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.

    Section 4107(c) of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``clause (1)'' and 
        inserting ``paragraph (1)'';
            (2) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (3) in paragraph (6), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(7) performance measures for the provision of assistance 
        under this chapter, including--
                    ``(A) the percentage of participants in programs 
                under this chapter who are employed after the 180-day 
                period following their completion of the program;
                    ``(B) the percentage of such participants who are 
                employed after the one-year period following their 
                completion of the program;
                    ``(C) the median earnings of such participants 
                after the 180-day period following their completion of 
                the program;
                    ``(D) the median earnings of such participants 
                after the one-year period following their completion of 
                the program; and
                    ``(E) the percentage of participants in such 
                program who complete a certificate, degree, diploma, 
                licensure, or industry-recognized credential while they 
                are participating in the program or within one year of 
                completing the program.''.

SEC. 303. CLARIFICATION OF PRIORITY OF SERVICE FOR VETERANS IN 
              DEPARTMENT OF LABOR JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS.

    Section 4215 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3), by adding at the end the 
        following: ``Such priority includes giving access to such 
        services to a covered person before a non-covered person or, if 
        resources are limited, giving access to such services to a 
        covered person instead of a non-covered person.''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
    ``(d) Addition to Annual Report.--(1) In the annual report required 
under section 4107(c) of this title for the program year beginning in 
2003 and each subsequent program year, the Secretary of Labor shall 
evaluate whether covered persons are receiving priority of service and 
are being fully served by qualified job training programs. Such 
evaluation shall include--
            ``(A) an analysis of the implementation of providing such 
        priority at the local level;
            ``(B) whether the representation of veterans in such 
        programs is in proportion to the incidence of representation of 
        veterans in the labor market, including within groups that the 
        Secretary may designate for priority under such programs, if 
        any; and
            ``(C) performance measures, as determined by the Secretary, 
        to determine whether veterans are receiving priority of service 
        and are being fully served by qualified job training programs.
    ``(2) The Secretary may not use the proportion of representation of 
veterans described in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) as the basis 
for determining under such paragraph whether veterans are receiving 
priority of service and are being fully served by qualified job 
training programs.''.

SEC. 304. EVALUATION OF INDIVIDUALS RECEIVING TRAINING AT THE NATIONAL 
              VETERANS' EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING SERVICES INSTITUTE.

    (a) In General.--Section 4109 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) The Secretary shall require that each individual who receives 
training provided by the Institute, or its successor, is given a final 
examination to evaluate the individual's performance in receiving such 
training. Each such evaluation shall be designed to provide the 
individual with a grade, which shall be designated as either a passing 
grade or a failing grade. The results of such final examination shall 
be provided to the entity that sponsored the individual who received 
the training.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (d) of section 4109 of title 38, 
United States Code, shall apply with respect to training provided by 
the National Veterans' Employment and Training Services Institute that 
begins on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 305. REQUIREMENTS FOR FULL-TIME DISABLED VETERANS' OUTREACH 
              PROGRAM SPECIALISTS AND LOCAL VETERANS' EMPLOYMENT 
              REPRESENTATIVES.

    (a) Disabled Veterans' Outreach Program Specialists.--Section 4103A 
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d) Additional Requirement for Full-Time Employees.--(1) A full-
time disabled veterans' outreach program specialist shall perform only 
duties related to meeting the employment needs of eligible veterans, as 
described in subsection (a), and shall not perform other non-veteran-
related duties.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall conduct regular audits to ensure 
compliance with paragraph (1). If, on the basis of such an audit, the 
Secretary determines that a State is not in compliance with paragraph 
(1), the Secretary may reduce the amount of a grant made to the State 
under section 4102A(b)(5) of this title.''.
    (b) Local Veterans' Employment Representatives.--Section 4104 of 
such title is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Additional Requirements for Full-Time Employees.--(1) A full-
time local veterans' employment representative shall perform only 
duties related to the employment, training, and placement services 
under this chapter, and shall not perform other non-veteran-related 
duties.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall conduct regular audits to ensure 
compliance with paragraph (1). If, on the basis of such an audit, the 
Secretary determines that a State is not in compliance with paragraph 
(1), the Secretary may reduce the amount of a grant made to the State 
under section 4102A(b)(5) of this title.''.

SEC. 306. REPORT ON FINDINGS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND 
              DEPARTMENT OF LABOR CREDENTIALING WORK GROUP.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
Labor shall jointly enter into a contract with a qualified organization 
or entity jointly selected by the Secretaries to complete the study of 
10 military occupational specialties already begun by the joint 
Department of Defense and Department of Labor Credentialing Work Group 
to reduce barriers to certification and licensure for transitioning 
members of the Armed Forces and veterans. This study shall also include 
an examination of current initiatives, programs, and authority already 
established within the Department of Defense and the military services 
to promote credentialing of members of the Armed Forces and identify 
best practices that can be leveraged by all services to increase the 
transferability of military education, training, experience, and 
skills.
    (b) Report.--The contract described in subsection (a) shall provide 
that upon completion of the study described in such subsection, the 
organization or entity with which the Secretary of Defense and the 
Secretary of Labor entered into the contract shall submit to the 
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Labor a report setting forth 
the results of the study. The report shall include--
            (1) a plan for leveraging existing successful initiatives, 
        programs, and authority to promote the credentialing of all 
        members of the Armed Forces; and
            (2) such information as the Secretaries shall specify in 
        the contract.
    (c) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than March 31, 2012, the 
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Labor shall jointly submit to 
Congress a report on the results of the study described in subsection 
(a), together with such comments on the report as the Secretaries 
jointly consider appropriate.

      TITLE IV--IMPROVEMENTS TO UNIFORMED SERVICES EMPLOYMENT AND 
                          REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS

SEC. 401. CLARIFICATION OF BENEFITS OF EMPLOYMENT COVERED UNDER USERRA.

    Section 4303(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, 
including'' after ``means''.

                         TITLE V--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 501. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN EXPIRING PROVISIONS OF LAW.

    (a) Adjustable Rate Mortgages.--Section 3707(a) of such title is 
amended by striking ``2012'' and inserting ``2014''.
    (b) Hybrid Adjustable Rate Mortgages.--Section 3707A(a) of such 
title is amended by striking ``2012'' and inserting ``2014''.
    (c) Pool of Mortgage Loans.--Section 3720(h)(2) of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2011'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2016''.
    (d) Loan Fees.--
            (1) Extension of fees.--Section 3729(b)(2) of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in clause (iii), by striking ``November 
                        18, 2011'' and inserting ``October 1, 2017''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in clause (iv), by striking ``November 
                        18, 2011'' and inserting ``October 1, 2017'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``November 
                        18, 2011'' and inserting ``October 1, 2017'';
                            (ii) by striking clauses (ii) and (iii) and 
                        redesignating clause (iv) as clause (ii); and
                            (iii) in clause (ii), as so redesignated, 
                        by striking ``October 1, 2013'' and inserting 
                        ``October 1, 2017'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (C)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``November 
                        18, 2011'' and inserting ``October 1, 2017''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``November 
                        18, 2011'' and inserting ``October 1, 2017''; 
                        and
                    (D) in subparagraph (D)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``November 
                        18, 2011'' and inserting ``October 1, 2017''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``November 
                        18, 2011'' and inserting ``October 1, 2017''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on the later of--
                    (A) October 1, 2011; or
                    (B) the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Temporary Adjustment of Maximum Home Loan Guaranty Amount.--
Section 501 of the Veterans Benefits Improvement Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110-389; 122 Stat. 4175; 38 U.S.C. 3703 note) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2011'' and inserting ``December 31, 2014''.

SEC. 502. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS HOUSING LOAN GUARANTEES FOR 
              SURVIVING SPOUSES OF CERTAIN TOTALLY DISABLED VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3701(b) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) The term `veteran' also includes, for purposes of 
        home loans, the surviving spouse of a deceased veteran who dies 
        and who was in receipt of or entitled to receive (or but for 
        the receipt of retired or retirement pay was entitled to 
        receive) compensation at the time of death for a service-
        connected disability rated totally disabling if--
                    ``(A) the disability was continuously rated totally 
                disabling for a period of 10 or more years immediately 
                preceding death;
                    ``(B) the disability was continuously rated totally 
                disabling for a period of not less than five years from 
                the date of such veteran's discharge or other release 
                from active duty; or
                    ``(C) the veteran was a former prisoner of war who 
                died after September 30, 1999, and the disability was 
                continuously rated totally disabling for a period of 
                not less than one year immediately preceding death.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to a loan guaranteed after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
    (c) Clarification With Respect to Certain Fees.--Fees shall be 
collected under section 3729 of title 38, United States Code, from a 
person described in paragraph (6) of subsection (b) of section 3701 of 
such title, as added by subsection (a), in the same manner as such fees 
are collected from a person described in paragraph (2) of such 
subsection.

SEC. 503. REIMBURSEMENT RATE FOR AMBULANCE SERVICES.

    Section 111(b)(3) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(C) In the case of transportation of a person under subparagraph 
(B) by ambulance, the Secretary may pay the provider of the 
transportation the lesser of the actual charge for the transportation 
or the amount determined by the fee schedule established under section 
1834(l) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395(l)) unless the 
Secretary has entered into a contract for that transportation with the 
provider.''.

SEC. 504. ANNUAL REPORTS ON POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 
              AND SURVIVORS' AND DEPENDENTS' EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Reports Required.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter III of chapter 33 of title 38, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new section:
``Sec. 3325. Reporting requirement
    ``(a) In General.--For each academic year--
            ``(1) the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a 
        report on the operation of the program provided for in this 
        chapter; and
            ``(2) the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on 
        the operation of the program provided for in this chapter and 
        the program provided for under chapter 35 of this title.
    ``(b) Contents of Secretary of Defense Reports.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall include in each report submitted under this section--
            ``(1) information indicating--
                    ``(A) the extent to which the benefit levels 
                provided under this chapter are adequate to achieve the 
                purposes of inducing individuals to enter and remain in 
                the Armed Forces and of providing an adequate level of 
                financial assistance to help meet the cost of pursuing 
                a program of education;
                    ``(B) whether it is necessary for the purposes of 
                maintaining adequate levels of well-qualified active-
                duty personnel in the Armed Forces to continue to offer 
                the opportunity for educational assistance under this 
                chapter to individuals who have not yet entered active-
                duty service; and
                    ``(C) describing the efforts under section 3323(b) 
                of this title to inform members of the Armed Forces of 
                the active duty service requirements for entitlement to 
                educational assistance benefits under this chapter and 
                the results from such efforts; and
            ``(2) such recommendations for administrative and 
        legislative changes regarding the provision of educational 
        assistance to members of the Armed Forces and veterans, and 
        their dependents, as the Secretary of Defense considers 
        appropriate.
    ``(c) Contents of Secretary of Veterans Affairs Reports.--The 
Secretary shall include in each report submitted under this section--
            ``(1) information concerning the level of utilization of 
        educational assistance and of expenditures under this chapter 
        and under chapter 35 of this title;
            ``(2) the number of credit hours, certificates, degrees, 
        and other qualifications earned by beneficiaries under this 
        chapter and under chapter 35 of this title during the academic 
        year covered by the report; and
            ``(3) such recommendations for administrative and 
        legislative changes regarding the provision of educational 
        assistance to members of the Armed Forces and veterans, and 
        their dependents, as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    ``(d) Termination.--No report shall be required under this section 
after January 1, 2021.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 3324 the following new item:

``3325. Reporting requirement.''.
            (3) Deadline for submittal of first report.--The first 
        reports required under section 3325 of title 38, United States 
        Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall be submitted by not 
        later than November 1, 2012, and shall cover the 2011-2012 
        academic year.
    (b) Repeal of Report on All Volunteer-Force Educational Assistance 
Program.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 30 of such title is amended by 
        striking section 3036.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 3036.

SEC. 505. LIMITATION ON AMOUNT AUTHORIZED TO BE APPROPRIATED FOR 
              EMPLOYEE TRAVEL, PRINTING, AND FLEET VEHICLES.

    The amount authorized to be appropriated for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for employee travel, printing, and fleet vehicles for 
fiscal year 2012 shall not exceed $385,000,000.

SEC. 506. EXTENSION OF REDUCED PENSION FOR CERTAIN VETERANS COVERED BY 
              MEDICAID PLANS FOR SERVICES FURNISHED BY NURSING 
              FACILITIES.

    Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``May 31, 2015'' and inserting ``May 31, 2016''.

SEC. 507. STATUTORY PAY-AS-YOU-GO ACT OF 2010.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

            Passed the House of Representatives October 12, 2011.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
