
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 500 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 500

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     December 16, 2011.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider the conference report to accompany the bill (H.R. 2055) making 
appropriations for military construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2012, and for 
other purposes. All points of order against the conference report and against 
its consideration are waived. The conference report shall be considered as read. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the conference report to 
its adoption without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate; and (2) 
one motion to recommit if applicable.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 3672) making appropriations for disaster relief 
requirements for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2012, and for other 
purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the 
bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Appropriations; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution, it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 94) directing the Clerk of 
the House of Representatives to make corrections in the enrollment of H.R. 3672. 
All points of order against consideration of the concurrent resolution are 
waived. The concurrent resolution shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against provisions in the concurrent resolution are waived. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the concurrent resolution to its 
adoption without intervening motion except: (1) 20 minutes of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations; and (2) one motion to recommit which may not contain 
instructions.
    Sec. 4.  The Clerk shall not transmit to the Senate a message that the House 
has passed H.R. 3672 until notified by the Speaker or by message from the Senate 
that the Senate has taken the question on adoption of House Concurrent 
Resolution 94 as adopted by the House.
    Sec. 5.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of December 
16, 2011, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules, 
as though under clause 1(c) of rule XV, relating to a measure continuing 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2012.
    Sec. 6.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of December 31, 2011, providing for consideration or disposition 
of any of the following measures:
            (1) A measure relating to expiring provisions of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986.
            (2) A measure relating to the Medicare payment system for 
        physicians.
            (3) A measure relating to appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
        September 30, 2012.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
