
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1230 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  Union Calendar No. 36
112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1230

                          [Report No. 112-68]

 To require the Secretary of the Interior to conduct certain offshore 
            oil and gas lease sales, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 29, 2011

Mr. Hastings of Washington (for himself, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Fleming, Mr. 
Landry, Mr. Flores, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, 
Mr. Wittman, Mr. Broun of Georgia, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Denham, 
   Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Nunes, Mr. Boustany, Mr. Grimm, Mr. 
Scalise, Mr. Ross of Florida, Mr. Graves of Missouri, Mrs. Myrick, Mrs. 
Lummis, Mr. Gingrey of Georgia, Mr. Pompeo, Mr. Olson, Mrs. Capito, Mr. 
   Westmoreland, Mr. Long, Mr. Simpson, Ms. Jenkins, Mr. Kelly, Mr. 
 Rigell, Mr. Heller, and Mrs. Hartzler) introduced the following bill; 
        which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

                              May 2, 2011

 Additional sponsors: Mr. Manzullo, Mr. Stivers, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Terry, 
   Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. Lewis of California, Mr. Nunnelee, Mr. 
 McKeon, Mr. Burton of Indiana, Mr. Kline, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Rehberg, 
  Mr. McClintock, Mr. Canseco, Mr. Woodall, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. 
 Sessions, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Fincher, 
 Mr. Paul, Mr. Coffman of Colorado, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. 
 Pence, Mr. Pearce, Mrs. Black, Mr. Scott of South Carolina, Mr. Brady 
of Texas, Mr. Carter, Mr. Farenthold, Mrs. Bachmann, Mrs. Ellmers, Mr. 
                         Akin, and Mr. Calvert

                              May 2, 2011

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the Secretary of the Interior to conduct certain offshore 
            oil and gas lease sales, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Restarting American Offshore Leasing 
Now Act''.

SEC. 2. REQUIREMENT TO CONDUCT PROPOSED OIL AND GAS LEASE SALE 216 IN 
              THE CENTRAL GULF OF MEXICO.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct 
offshore oil and gas Lease Sale 216 under section 8 of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (33 U.S.C. 1337) as soon as practicable, 
but not later than 4 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Environmental Review.--For the purposes of that lease sale, the 
Environmental Impact Statement for the 2007-2012 5-Year OCS Plan and 
the Multi-Sale Environmental Impact Statement are deemed to satisfy the 
requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).

SEC. 3. REQUIREMENT TO CONDUCT PROPOSED OIL AND GAS LEASE SALE 218 IN 
              THE WESTERN GULF OF MEXICO.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct 
offshore oil and gas Lease Sale 218 under section 8 of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (33 U.S.C. 1337) as soon as practicable, 
but not later than 8 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Environmental Review.--For the purposes of that lease sale, the 
Environmental Impact Statement for the 2007-2012 5-Year OCS Plan and 
the Multi-Sale Environmental Impact Statement are deemed to satisfy the 
requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).

SEC. 4. REQUIREMENT TO CONDUCT PROPOSED OIL AND GAS LEASE SALE 220 ON 
              THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF OFFSHORE VIRGINIA.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct 
offshore oil and gas Lease Sale 220 under section 8 of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (33 U.S.C. 1337) as soon as practicable, 
but not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Prohibition on Conflicts With Military Operations.--The 
Secretary shall not make any tract available for leasing under this 
section if the President, through the Secretary of Defense, determines 
that drilling activity on that tract would create an unreasonable 
conflict with military operations.

SEC. 5. REQUIREMENT TO CONDUCT PROPOSED OIL AND GAS LEASE SALE 222 IN 
              THE CENTRAL GULF OF MEXICO.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct 
offshore oil and gas Lease Sale 222 under section 8 of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (33 U.S.C. 1337) as soon as practicable, 
but not later than June 1, 2012.
    (b) Environmental Review.--For the purposes of that lease sale, the 
Environmental Impact Statement for the 2007-2012 5-Year OCS Plan and 
the Multi-Sale Environmental Impact Statement are deemed to satisfy the 
requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).

SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) The term ``Environmental Impact Statement for the 2007-
        2012 5 Year OCS Plan'' means the Final Environmental Impact 
        Statement for Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing 
        Program: 2007-2012 (April 2007) prepared by the Secretary of 
        the Interior.
            (2) The term ``Multi-Sale Environmental Impact Statement'' 
        means the Environmental Impact Statement for Proposed Western 
        Gulf of Mexico OCS Oil and Gas Lease Sales 204, 207, 210, 215, 
        and 218, and Proposed Central Gulf of Mexico OCS Oil and Gas 
        Lease Sales 205, 206, 208, 213, 216, and 222 (September 2008) 
        prepared by the Secretary of the Interior.
                                                  Union Calendar No. 36

112th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 1230

                          [Report No. 112-68]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To require the Secretary of the Interior to conduct certain offshore 
            oil and gas lease sales, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 2, 2011

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
