
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 738 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 738

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 24, 2012.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4078) to provide that no agency may take any significant regulatory 
action until the unemployment rate is equal to or less than 6.0 percent. The 
first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the 
bill and shall not exceed two hours equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary and the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. 
After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-
minute rule. In lieu of the amendments in the nature of a substitute recommended 
by the Committees on the Judiciary and Oversight and Government Reform now 
printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of 
the text of Rules Committee Print 112-28, modified by the amendment printed in 
part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, 
shall be considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as the original bill for the purpose 
of further amendment under the five-minute rule and shall be considered as read. 
All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No 
further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order except those 
printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules. Each such further 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are 
waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House with such 
further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and any further amendment thereto 
to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 6082) to officially replace, within the 60-day Congressional review 
period under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, President Obama's Proposed 
Final Outer Continental Shelf Oil; Gas Leasing Program (2012-2017) with a 
congressional plan that will conduct additional oil and natural gas lease sales 
to promote offshore energy development, job creation, and increased domestic 
energy production to ensure a more secure energy future in the United States, 
and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural 
Resources. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on Natural Resources now printed in the bill, it 
shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment 
under the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting 
of the text of Rules Committee Print 112-29. That amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed 
in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. 
Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may 
be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as 
read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 
amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for 
amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such 
amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in 
the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or 
to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
