
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3408 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 272
112th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3408

                          [Report No. 112-392]

   To set clear rules for the development of United States oil shale 
 resources, to promote shale technology research and development, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 14, 2011

 Mr. Lamborn introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

                            February 9, 2012

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
    [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on 
                           November 14, 2011]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To set clear rules for the development of United States oil shale 
 resources, to promote shale technology research and development, and 
                          for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting Investment in Oil Shale 
the Next Generation of Environmental, Energy, and Resource Security 
Act'' or the ``PIONEERS Act''.

SEC. 2. EFFECTIVENESS OF OIL SHALE REGULATIONS, AMENDMENTS TO RESOURCE 
              MANAGEMENT PLANS, AND RECORD OF DECISION.

    (a) Regulations.--Notwithstanding any other law or regulation to 
the contrary, the final regulations regarding oil shale management 
published by the Bureau of Land Management on November 18, 2008 (73 
Fed. Reg. 69,414) are deemed to satisfy all legal and procedural 
requirements under any law, including the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the Endangered Species 
Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), and the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
(Public Law 109-58), and the Secretary of the Interior shall implement 
those regulations, including the oil shale leasing program authorized 
by the regulations, without any other administrative action necessary.
    (b) Amendments to Resource Management Plans and Record of 
Decision.--Notwithstanding any other law or regulation to the contrary, 
the November 17, 2008 U.S. Bureau of Land Management Approved Resource 
Management Plan Amendments/Record of Decision for Oil Shale and Tar 
Sands Resources to Address Land Use Allocations in Colorado, Utah, and 
Wyoming and Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement are 
deemed to satisfy all legal and procedural requirements under any law, 
including the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1701 et seq.), the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et 
seq.), the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
seq.), and the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58), and the 
Secretary of the Interior shall implement the oil shale leasing program 
authorized by the regulations referred to in subsection (a) in those 
areas covered by the resource management plans amended by such 
amendments, and covered by such record of decision, without any other 
administrative action necessary.

SEC. 3. OIL SHALE LEASING.

    (a) Additional Research and Development Lease Sales.--The Secretary 
of the Interior shall hold a lease sale within 180 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act offering an additional 10 parcels for lease 
for research, development, and demonstration of oil shale resources, 
under the terms offered in the solicitation of bids for such leases 
published on January 15, 2009 (74 Fed. Reg. 10).
    (b) Commercial Lease Sales.--No later than January 1, 2016, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall hold no less than 5 separate commercial 
lease sales in areas considered to have the most potential for oil 
shale development, as determined by the Secretary, in areas nominated 
through public comment. Each lease sale shall be for an area of not 
less than 25,000 acres, and in multiple lease blocs.

SEC. 4. POLICIES REGARDING BUYING, BUILDING, AND WORKING FOR AMERICA.

    (a) Congressional Intent.--It is the intent of the Congress that--
            (1) this Act will support a healthy and growing United 
        States domestic energy sector that, in turn, helps to 
        reinvigorate American manufacturing, transportation, and 
        service sectors by employing the vast talents of United States 
        workers to assist in the development of energy from domestic 
        sources;
            (2) to ensure a robust oil shale industry and ensure that 
        the benefits of development support local communities, under 
        this Act, the Secretary shall make every effort to promote the 
        development of oil shale in a manner that will support the 
        long-term commercial development of oil shale, and shall take 
        into consideration the socioeconomic impacts, infrastructure 
        requirements, and fiscal stability for local communities 
        located within areas containing oil shale resources; and
            (3) the Congress will monitor the deployment of personnel 
        and material onshore to encourage the development of American 
        technology and manufacturing to enable United States workers to 
        benefit from this Act through good jobs and careers, as well as 
        the establishment of important industrial facilities to support 
        expanded access to American resources.
    (b) Requirement.--The Secretary of the Interior shall when 
possible, and practicable, encourage the use of United States workers 
and equipment manufactured in the United States in all construction 
related to mineral resource development under this Act.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 272

112th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 3408

                          [Report No. 112-392]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   To set clear rules for the development of United States oil shale 
 resources, to promote shale technology research and development, and 
                          for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            February 9, 2012

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
