
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 276 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 276

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 25, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for further consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 1540) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2012 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense and for military construction, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for fiscal year 2012, and for other 
purposes. No further general debate shall be in order.
    Sec. 2. (a) It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the 
purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Armed Services now printed in the 
bill. The committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered 
as read. All points of order against the committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute are waived.
    (b) No amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall be in order except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution and amendments en bloc described in section 3 of 
this resolution.
    (c) Each amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules shall be 
considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable 
for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be 
subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole.
    (d) All points of order against amendments printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules or against amendments en bloc described in section 3 of this 
resolution are waived.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Armed Services or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of 
amendments printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered pursuant to this 
section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Armed Services or their designees, shall not be subject to amendment, and 
shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in 
the Committee of the Whole. The original proponent of an amendment included in 
such amendments en bloc may insert a statement in the Congressional Record 
immediately before the disposition of the amendments en bloc.
    Sec. 4.  At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as 
may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 5.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this resolution, the 
amendment specified in section 6 shall be in order in lieu of amendment number 5 
in House Report 111-88.
    Sec. 6.  The text referred to in section 5 is as follows:
     Page 113, after line 17, insert the following:

``SEC. 317 HEALTH ASSESSMENT REPORTS REQUIRED WHEN WASTE IS DISPOSED OF IN OPEN-
              AIR BURN PITS.

    ``Section 317 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
(Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2250; 10 U.S.C. 2701 note) is amended--
            ``(1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            ``(2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection 
        (c):
    ```(c) Health Assessment Reports.--Not later than 180 days after notice is 
due under subsection (a)(2), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a health assessment 
report on each open-air burn pit at a location where at least 100 personnel have 
been employed for 90 consecutive days or more. Each such report shall include 
each of the following:
            ```(1) An epidemiological description of the short-term and long-
        term health risks posed to personnel in the area where the burn pit is 
        located because of exposure to the open-air burn pit.
            ```(2) A copy of the methodology used to determine the health risks 
        described in paragraph (1).
            ```(3) A copy of the assessment of the operational risks and health 
        risks when making the determination pursuant to subsection (a) that no 
        alternative disposal method is feasible for the open-air burn pit.'.''.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
