
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 266 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 56
112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 266

                          [Report No. 112-171]


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 18, 2011

             Referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

                             July 20, 2011

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To redesignate the Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge as the Sam D. 
               Hamilton Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REDESIGNATION OF THE NOXUBEE NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.

    (a) In General.--The Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge, located in 
the State of Mississippi, is redesignated as the ``Sam D. Hamilton 
Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge''.
    (b) Boundary Revision.--Nothing in this Act prevents the Secretary 
of the Interior from making adjustments to the boundaries of the Sam D. 
Hamilton Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge (referred to in this section 
as the ``Refuge''), as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, to 
carry out the mission of the National Wildlife Refuge System in 
accordance with the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act 
of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et seq.) and any other applicable authority.
    (c) Addition of Land.--Nothing in this Act prevents the Secretary 
of the Interior from adding to the Refuge new land or parcels of the 
National Wildlife Refuge System, as the Secretary determines to be 
appropriate, to carry out the mission of the National Wildlife Refuge 
System in accordance with the National Wildlife Refuge System 
Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et seq.) and any other 
applicable authority.
    (d) References.--Any reference in any statute, rule, regulation, 
executive order, publication, map, paper, or other document of the 
United States to the Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge is deemed to 
refer to the Sam D. Hamilton Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge.
                                                  House Calendar No. 56

112th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 266

                          [Report No. 112-171]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

   To redesignate the Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge as the Sam D. 
               Hamilton Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 20, 2011

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
