
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 597 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 597

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        March 28, 2012.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 112) establishing the budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2013 and setting forth appropriate budgetary 
levels for fiscal years 2014 through 2022. The first reading of the concurrent 
resolution shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of 
the concurrent resolution are waived. General debate shall not exceed four 
hours, with three hours of general debate confined to the congressional budget 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on the Budget and one hour of general debate on the subject of 
economic goals and policies equally divided and controlled by Representative 
Brady of Texas and Representative Hinchey of New York or their respective 
designees. After general debate the concurrent resolution shall be considered 
for amendment under the five-minute rule. The concurrent resolution shall be 
considered as read. No amendment shall be in order except those printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each amendment 
may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, and shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent. All points of order against such amendments are 
waived except that the adoption of an amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall constitute the conclusion of consideration of the concurrent resolution 
for amendment. After the conclusion of consideration of the concurrent 
resolution for amendment and a final period of general debate, which shall not 
exceed 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on the Budget, the Committee shall rise and 
report the concurrent resolution to the House with such amendment as may have 
been adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
concurrent resolution and amendments thereto to adoption without intervening 
motion except amendments offered by the chair of the Committee on the Budget 
pursuant to section 305(a)(5) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to achieve 
mathematical consistency. The concurrent resolution shall not be subject to a 
demand for division of the question of its adoption.
    Sec. 2.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of March 
29, 2012, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules, 
as though under clause 1 of rule XV, relating to a measure extending expiring 
surface transportation authority.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
