
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 92 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 92

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     February 15, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1) making appropriations for the Department of Defense and the other 
departments and agencies of the Government for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2011, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. No amendment to the bill 
shall be in order except: (1) those received for printing in the portion of the 
Congressional Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII dated 
at least one day before the day of consideration of the amendment (but no later 
than February 15, 2011); and (2) pro forma amendments for the purpose of debate. 
Each amendment so received may be offered only by the Member who submitted it 
for printing or a designee and shall be considered as read if printed. When the 
committee rises and reports the bill back to the House with a recommendation 
that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  During consideration of H.R. 1, clause 2(f) of rule XXI shall not 
apply to amendments addressing objects within more than one suballocation made 
by the Committee on Appropriations under section 302(b) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.
    Sec. 3.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of February 17, 2011, providing for consideration or disposition 
of H.R. 1.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
