
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 245 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 245

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                           May 5, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1229) to amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to facilitate 
the safe and timely production of American energy resources from the Gulf of 
Mexico. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural 
Resources. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. The amendment recommended by the Committee on Natural 
Resources now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted in the House 
and in the Committee of the Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
the original bill for the purpose of further amendment under the five-minute 
rule and shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. No further amendment to the bill, as amended, 
shall be in order except those printed in part A of the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each further amendment may be offered 
only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 
the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are waived. At the 
conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise 
and report the bill, as amended, to the House with such further amendments as 
may have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1230) to require the Secretary of the Interior to conduct certain 
offshore oil and gas lease sales, and for other purposes. The first reading of 
the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Natural Resources. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in order except those printed in part 
B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each 
such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be 
offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, 
shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, 
and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House 
or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments 
are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as 
may have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  In the engrossment of H.R. 1229, the Clerk shall--
            (1) add the text of H.R. 1230, as passed by the House, as new matter 
        at the end of H.R. 1229;
            (2) conform the title of H.R. 1229 to reflect the addition of H.R. 
        1230, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;
            (3) assign appropriate designations to provisions within the 
        engrossment; and
            (4) conform cross-references and provisions for short titles within 
        the engrossment.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
