
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 392 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 392

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     September 8, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 2218) to amend the charter school program under the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Education and the Workforce. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in 
order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the 
five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on Education and the Workforce now printed in the bill. The committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute are 
waived. No amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall be in order except those printed in part A of the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only 
in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated 
in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time 
specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an 
opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a 
demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion 
of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report 
the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member 
may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the 
Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the committee amendment in the nature 
of a substitute. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except 
one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2. (a) At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1892) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2012 for 
intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States 
Government, the Community Management Account, and the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other purposes. The first 
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the 
bill and amendments specified in this resolution and shall not exceed one hour 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. After general debate the bill shall 
be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule.
    (b) In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by 
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence now printed in the bill, it shall 
be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under 
the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of 
the text of the Rules Committee Print dated August 31, 2011. That amendment in 
the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived.
    (c) No amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in 
order as original text shall be in order except those printed in part B of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution and amendments en 
bloc described in subsection (f).
    (d) Each amendment printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only 
by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole.
    (e) All points of order against amendments printed in part B of the report 
of the Committee on Rules or amendments en bloc described in subsection (f) are 
waived.
    (f) It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Permanent Select 
Committee on Intelligence or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting 
of amendments printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules not 
earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered pursuant to this subsection 
shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided 
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Permanent Select 
Committee on Intelligence or their designees, shall not be subject to amendment, 
and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House 
or in the Committee of the Whole. The original proponent of an amendment 
included in such amendments en bloc may insert a statement in the Congressional 
Record immediately before the disposition of the amendments en bloc.
    (g) At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as 
may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  A motion to proceed with regard to a joint resolution of 
disapproval specified in subsection (a)(1) of section 3101A of title 31, United 
States Code--
            (a) shall be in order only if offered by the Majority Leader or his 
        designee; and
            (b) may be offered even following the sixth day specified in 
        subsection (c)(3) of such section but not later than the legislative day 
        of September 14, 2011.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
