
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 150 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 150

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         March 9, 2011.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 830) to rescind the unobligated funding for the FHA Refinance Program 
and to terminate the program. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed 
with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General 
debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Financial Services. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to consider as an 
original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Financial Services now printed in the bill. Each section of the committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute are 
waived. No amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall be in order except those received for printing in the portion of the 
Congressional Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII in a 
daily issue dated March 9, 2011, or earlier and except pro forma amendments for 
the purpose of debate. Each amendment so received may be offered only by the 
Member who caused it to be printed or a designee and shall be considered as read 
if printed. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as 
may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
