
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 808 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 808

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     November 15, 2012.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 6156) to authorize the extension of 
nondiscriminatory treatment (normal trade relations treatment) to products of 
the Russian Federation and Moldova and to require reports on the compliance of 
the Russian Federation with its obligations as a member of the World Trade 
Organization, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. An amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of 
the text of Rules Committee Print 112-33 shall be considered as adopted. The 
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 90 minutes of 
debate, with 60 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means and 30 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  On any legislative day during the period from November 19, 2012, 
through November 23, 2012--(a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous 
day shall be considered as approved; (b) the Chair may at any time declare the 
House adjourned to meet at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, 
section 5, article I of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in 
declaring the adjournment; and (c) bills and resolutions introduced during the 
period addressed by this section shall be numbered, listed in the Congressional 
Record, and when printed shall bear the date of introduction, but may be 
referred by the Speaker at a later time.
    Sec. 3.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 2 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
