
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3506 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                    September 24, 1998.
      Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representatives (H.R. 
3506) entitled ``An Act to award a congressional gold medal to Gerald 
R. and Betty Ford.'', do pass with the following

                              AMENDMENTS:

(1)Page 3, after line 14, insert:

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDALS FOR THE ``LITTLE ROCK NINE''.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) Jean Brown Trickey, Carlotta Walls LaNier, Melba 
        Patillo Beals, Terrence Roberts, Gloria Ray Karlmark, Thelma 
        Mothershed Wair, Ernest Green, Elizabeth Eckford, and Jefferson 
        Thomas, hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Little 
        Rock Nine'', voluntarily subjected themselves to the bitter 
        stinging pains of racial bigotry;
            (2) the Little Rock Nine are civil rights pioneers whose 
        selfless acts considerably advanced the civil rights debate in 
        this country;
            (3) the Little Rock Nine risked their lives to integrate 
        Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas, and subsequently 
        the Nation;
            (4) the Little Rock Nine sacrificed their innocence to 
        protect the American principle that we are all ``one nation, 
        under God, indivisible'';
            (5) the Little Rock Nine have indelibly left their mark on 
        the history of this Nation; and
            (6) the Little Rock Nine have continued to work toward 
        equality for all Americans.
    (b) Presentation Authorized.--The President is authorized to 
present, on behalf of Congress, to Jean Brown Trickey, Carlotta Walls 
LaNier, Melba Patillo Beals, Terrence Roberts, Gloria Ray Karlmark, 
Thelma Mothershed Wair, Ernest Green, Elizabeth Eckford, and Jefferson 
Thomas, commonly referred to the ``Little Rock Nine'', gold medals of 
appropriate design, in recognition of the selfless heroism that such 
individuals exhibited and the pain they suffered in the cause of civil 
rights by integrating Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas.
    (c) Design and Striking.--For purposes of the presentation referred 
to in subsection (b) the Secretary of the Treasury shall strike a gold 
medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions to be determined 
by the Secretary for each recipient.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriation.--Effective October 1, 1997, 
there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
to carry out this section.
    (e) Duplicate Medals.--
            (1) Striking and sale.--The Secretary of the Treasury may 
        strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medals struck 
        pursuant to this section under such regulations as the 
        Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the 
        cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of 
        machinery, and overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold 
        medal.
            (2) Reimbursement of appropriation.--The appropriation used 
        to carry out this section shall be reimbursed out of the 
        proceeds of sales under paragraph (1).

SEC. 4. COMMEMORATIVE COINS.

    (a) In General.--Section 101(7)(D) of the United States 
Commemorative Coin Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-329, 110 Stat. 4009) is 
amended to read as follows:
                    ``(D) Minting and issuance of coins.--The 
                Secretary--
                            ``(i) may not mint coins under this 
                        paragraph after July 1, 1998; and
                            ``(ii) may not issue coins minted under 
                        this paragraph after December 31, 1998.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall be 
construed to have the same effective date as section 101 of the United 
States Commemorative Coin Act of 1996.

(2)Page 3, line 15, strike out [sec. 3] and insert: sec. 5

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
105th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 3506

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENTS
