
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2110 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







107th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2110

 To temporarily increase the Federal medical assistance percentage for 
                         the medicaid program.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 11, 2002

  Ms. Collins (for herself and Mr. Nelson of Nebraska) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                                Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To temporarily increase the Federal medical assistance percentage for 
                         the medicaid program.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. TEMPORARY INCREASE OF MEDICAID FMAP.

    (a) Permitting Maintenance of Fiscal Year 2001 FMAP For Last 3 
Calendar Quarters of Fiscal Year 2002.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, but subject to subsection (e), if the FMAP determined 
without regard to this section for a State for fiscal year 2002 is less 
than the FMAP as so determined for fiscal year 2001, the FMAP for the 
State for fiscal year 2001 shall be substituted for the State's FMAP 
for the second, third, and fourth calendar quarters in fiscal year 
2002, before the application of this section.
    (b) Permitting Maintenance of Fiscal Year 2002 FMAP For Fiscal Year 
2003.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, but subject to 
subsection (e), if the FMAP determined without regard to this section 
for a State for fiscal year 2003 is less than the FMAP as so determined 
for fiscal year 2002, the FMAP for the State for fiscal year 2002 shall 
be substituted for the State's FMAP for each calendar quarter of fiscal 
year 2003, before the application of this section.
    (c) General 1.5 Percentage Points Increase for Calendar Year 2002 
and Fiscal Year 2003.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, but 
subject to subsections (e) and (f), for each State for the second, 
third, and fourth calendar quarters in fiscal year 2002 and each 
calendar quarter of fiscal year 2003, the FMAP (taking into account the 
application of subsections (a) and (b)) shall be increased by 1.5 
percentage points.
    (d) Increase in Cap on Medicaid Payments To Territories.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with respect to the second, 
third, and fourth calendar quarters in fiscal year 2002 and each 
calendar quarter of fiscal year 2003, the amounts otherwise determined 
for Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana 
Islands, and American Samoa under section 1108 of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1308) shall each be increased by an amount equal to 6 
percentage points of such amounts.
    (e) Scope of Application.--The increases in the FMAP for a State 
under this section shall apply only for purposes of title XIX of the 
Social Security Act and shall not apply with respect to--
            (1) disproportionate share hospital payments described in 
        section 1923 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-4); or
            (2) payments under titles IV and XXI of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
        601 et seq. and 1397aa et seq.).
    (f) State Eligibility.--A State is eligible for an increase in its 
FMAP under subsection (c) or an increase in a cap amount under 
subsection (d) only if the eligibility under its State plan under title 
XIX of the Social Security Act (including any waiver under such title 
or under section 1115 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1315)) is no more 
restrictive than the eligibility under such plan (or waiver) as in 
effect on October 1, 2001.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) FMAP.--The term ``FMAP'' means the Federal medical 
        assistance percentage, as defined in section 1905(b) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(b)).
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given such 
        term for purposes of title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396 et seq.).
                                 <all>
