
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5473 Introduced in House (IH)]







107th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5473

    To grant the consent of the Congress to the SMART Research and 
                          Development Compact.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 26, 2002

 Mr. Weldon of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Andrews, Mr. 
      Castle, Mr. Bartlett of Maryland, Mr. Borski, Mr. Brady of 
   Pennsylvania, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Coyne, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Doyle, Mr. 
Ehrlich, Mr. English, Mr. Fattah, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mr. 
Gekas, Mr. Gilchrest, Mr. Greenwood, Ms. Hart, Mr. Hoeffel, Mr. Holden, 
Mr. Holt, Mr. Kanjorski, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Mascara, Mr. Menendez, Mrs. 
Morella, Mr. Murtha, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Payne, Mr. Peterson 
of Pennsylvania, Mr. Pitts, Mr. Platts, Mr. Rothman, Mrs. Roukema, Mr. 
Saxton, Mr. Sherwood, Mr. Shuster, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Toomey, 
and Mr. Wynn) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
    Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on 
Science, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
   each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To grant the consent of the Congress to the SMART Research and 
                          Development Compact.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CONSENT TO COMPACT.

    The Congress consents to the SMART Research and Development Compact 
if that compact is entered into by the State of Delaware, the State of 
Maryland, the State of New Jersey, and the State of Pennsylvania. The 
compact reads substantially as follows:

                ``SMART RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COMPACT

                              ``ARTICLE I.

    ``The purpose of this compact is to promote the contribution of the 
Mid-Atlantic region to the Nation's research and development in science 
and technology, and to create an organization for Strengthening the 
Mid-Atlantic Region for Tomorrow (hereinafter in this compact referred 
to as the `Organization'). The purpose of the Organization is to 
oversee and help facilitate the acquisition of research and development 
funding, and to enhance the cooperation, formation of partnerships, and 
sharing of information among businesses, academic institutions, 
laboratories, and nonprofit entities, within Delaware, Maryland, New 
Jersey, and Pennsylvania.

                             ``ARTICLE II.

    ``This compact takes effect upon ratification by the States of 
Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, pursuant to the 
consent of Congress.

                             ``ARTICLE III.

    ``The States, which are parties to this compact (hereinafter 
referred to as `party States') do hereby establish and create the 
Organization as a joint organization which shall be known as the SMART 
Organization. The leadership of the Organization shall consist of a 
representative from each party State, appointed as provided by the law 
of that State. The leadership shall appoint a Blue Ribbon Commission 
comprised of a representative from each party State from each 
technological class described in article IV to advise the leadership. 
The participants in the organization may include any business, academic 
institution, nonprofit agency or laboratory.
    ``The leadership of the Organization shall oversee and direct the 
projects, administration, and policies of the SMART Organization. The 
Blue Ribbon Commission shall identify goals and new technological 
developments for the region to pursue and facilitate cooperation among 
participants. The leadership, Blue Ribbon Commission, and participants 
in the Organization shall serve without compensation or reimbursement 
of expenses. The leadership of the Organization shall hold regular 
quarterly meetings and such special meetings as its business may 
require.
    ``The Organization shall adopt such rules and regulations as may be 
needed. The Organization may hold hearings and conduct studies and 
surveys to carry out its purpose. The Organization may acquire by gift 
or otherwise and hold and dispose of such money and property as may be 
provided for the proper performance of its functions, may cooperate 
with other public or private groups, whether local, State, regional or 
national, having an interest in economic development, and may exercise 
such other powers as may be appropriate to accomplish its functions and 
duties in connection with the development of the Organization and to 
carry out the purpose of this compact.

                             ``ARTICLE IV.

    ``The Organization participants may, and the Blue Ribbon Commission 
shall, represent and originate from the following technological 
classes: information technology, sensors, rotorcraft technology, 
manufacturing technology, nanotechnology, electronics, 
telecommunications, chemical and biological, biomedical, opto-electric, 
Materials/Aerospace, and defense systems including directed energy, 
missile defense, future combat systems, and unmanned aerial vehicles. 
The SMART Organization may at any time, upon approval by the 
Organization leadership, designate and assign new representatives for 
additional technological classes and may at any time remove an existing 
class from the Organization's activities.

                              ``ARTICLE V.

    ``The leadership of the Organization shall appoint a full-time paid 
executive director, who shall be a person familiar with the nature of 
the procedures and the significance of scientific funding, research and 
development, economic development, and the informational, educational, 
and publicity methods of stimulating general interest in such 
developments. The executive director may appoint the other employees of 
the Organization and shall be the administrative head of the 
Organization. The executive director's term of office shall be at the 
pleasure of the leadership of the Organization.

                             ``ARTICLE VI.

    ``This compact shall continue in force and remain binding upon each 
party State until 6 months after the party State gives notice of its 
intent to withdraw to the other party States.''.

SEC. 2. RIGHT TO ALTER, AMEND, OR REPEAL.

    The Congress expressly reserves the right to alter, amend, or 
repeal this Act.

SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the SMART Organization 
such sums as may be necessary to assist the Organization in carrying 
out its activities, including the funding by the Organization of 
programs and projects consistent with the purposes of the Organization.
                                 <all>
