
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 359 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 359

   To amend title 10, United States Code, to provide eligibility for 
members enlisting in a regular component of the Armed Forces to enroll 
for advanced training in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Program; 
to increase the maximum age authorized for participation in the Senior 
Reserve Officers' Training Corps financial assistance program; and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 15, 2001

  Mr. Shelby introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
              referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend title 10, United States Code, to provide eligibility for 
members enlisting in a regular component of the Armed Forces to enroll 
for advanced training in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Program; 
to increase the maximum age authorized for participation in the Senior 
Reserve Officers' Training Corps financial assistance program; and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
Corps Eligibility Reform Act of 2001''.

SEC. 2. ELIGIBILITY OF REGULAR MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES TO PARTICIPATED 
              IN ADVANCED TRAINING UNDER SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' 
              TRAINING CORPS.

    (a) Enlistment in Regular Component.--Section 2104(b)(3) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``the regular component 
or'' after ``enlist in''.
    (b) Pay Rate for Regular Members on Active Duty for Field Training 
or Practice Cruises.--Section 209(c) of title 37, United States Code, 
is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, 
except that the rate for a cadet or midshipmen who is a member of the 
regular component of an armed force shall be the rate of basic pay 
applicable to the member under section 203 of this title''.

SEC. 3. INCREASED MAXIMUM AGE FOR PARTICIPATION IN SENIOR RESERVE 
              OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    Sections 2107(a) and 2107a(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, 
are amended--
            (1) by striking ``27 years of age'' and inserting ``35 
        years of age'': and
            (2) by striking ``, except that'' and all that follows 
        through ``30 years of age on such date''.

SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on 
October 1, 2001.
                                 <all>
