
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 203 Introduced in House (IH)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 203

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2356) to amend the 
 Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to provide bipartisan campaign 
                                reform.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 19, 2001

 Mr. Turner submitted the following resolution; which was referred to 
                         the Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2356) to amend the 
 Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to provide bipartisan campaign 
                                reform.

    Resolved, That on the next legislative day after the adoption of 
this resolution, immediately after the third daily order of business 
under clause 1 of rule XIV, the House shall resolve into the Committee 
of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 2356) to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to 
provide bipartisan campaign reform. The first reading of the bill shall 
be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall 
not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chairman and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on House Administration. After 
general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the 
five-minute rule. The bill shall be considered as read. No amendment to 
the bill, or to the bill as perfected by an amendment in the nature of 
a substitute finally adopted, shall be in order except those printed in 
the portion of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose in 
clause 8 of rule XVIII and as specified in this resolution.
    Sec. 2. (a) Before consideration of any other amendment, it shall 
be in order to consider the amendments in the nature of a substitute 
specified in subsection (b). Each such amendment may be offered only in 
the order specified, may be offered only by the Member designated or a 
designee of such Member, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for 40 minutes equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to amendment except 
as specified in section 3. All points of order against such amendments 
are waived (except those arising under clause 7 of rule XVI or clause 
5(a) of rule XXI). If more than one amendment in the nature of a 
substitute specified in subsection (b) is adopted, then only the one 
receiving the greater number of affirmative votes shall be considered 
as finally adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. In 
the case of a tie for the greater number of affirmative votes, then 
only the last amendment to receive that number of affirmative votes 
shall be considered as finally adopted in the House and in the 
Committee of the Whole.
    (b) The amendments in the nature of a substitute referred to in 
subsection (a) are as follows:
            (1) By the Majority Leader.
            (2) By Representative Ney of Ohio.
            (3) By Representative Shays of Connecticut.
    Sec. 3. (a) After disposition of the amendments in the nature of a 
substitute specified in section 2(b), the provisions of the bill, or 
the provisions of the bill as perfected by an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute finally adopted, shall be considered as an original 
bill for the purpose of further amendment under the five-minute rule 
and shall be considered as read. No further amendment shall be in order 
except those specified in subsection (b) of this section. Each such 
amendment may be offered only by the Member designated in subsection 
(b) or a designee of such Member, but not before the legislative day 
after the day on which such Member announces in accordance with 
subsection (c) in the House or in the Committee of the Whole the 
intention of the Member to offer the amendment. Each such amendment 
shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be 
subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division 
of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All 
points of order against such amendments are waived (except those 
arising under clause 7 of rule XVI or clause 5(a) of rule XXI).
    (b) The amendments referred to in subsection (a) are as follows:
            (1) Ten amendments by the Majority Leader.
            (2) Five amendments by the Minority Leader.
            (3) Five amendments by Representative Shays of Connecticut 
        or Representative Meehan of Massachusetts.
    (c) The announcement referred to in subsection (a) shall describe 
the amendment by the number assigned to it under clause 8 of rule XVIII 
and may not be made later than the end of the legislative day on which 
this resolution is adopted. A Member may make only one such 
announcement, which must include any amendment the Member intends to 
offer but must be limited to the number of amendments specified in 
subsection (b) of this section for the bill or for each substitute 
specified in section 2(b).
    Sec. 4. If the Committee of the Whole rises and reports that it has 
come to no resolution on the bill, then on the next legislative day, 
immediately after the third daily order of business under clause 1 of 
rule XIV, the House shall resolve into the Committee of the Whole for 
further consideration of the bill.
    Sec. 5. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for 
amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill, or the bill as 
perfected by an amendment in the nature of a substitute finally 
adopted, to the House with such further amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
further amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill, or 
to the bill as perfected by an amendment in the nature of a substitute 
finally adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered 
on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
                                 <all>
