
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1264 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1264

To require the conveyance of a petroleum terminal serving former Loring 
       Air Force Base and Bangor Air National Guard Base, Maine.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 27, 2001

Ms. Collins (for herself and Ms. Snowe) introduced the following bill; 
  which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require the conveyance of a petroleum terminal serving former Loring 
       Air Force Base and Bangor Air National Guard Base, Maine.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND CONVEYANCE, PETROLEUM TERMINAL SERVING FORMER LORING 
              AIR FORCE BASE AND BANGOR AIR NATIONAL GUARD BASE, MAINE.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--(1) The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
convey, without consideration, to the Ports and Marine Division of the 
Department of Transportation of the State of Maine (in this section 
referred to as the ``Division'') all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to the Petroleum Terminal (POL) at Mack Point, 
Searsport, Maine, which served former Loring Air Force Base and Bangor 
Air National Guard Base, Maine.
    (2) The conveyance under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
            (A) A parcel of real property, including any improvements 
        thereon, consisting of approximately 20 acres and comprising a 
        portion of the Petroleum Terminal.
            (B) Any additional fuel tanks, other improvements, and 
        equipment located on the 43-acre parcel of property adjacent to 
        the property described in subparagraph (A), and currently 
        leased by the Secretary, which constitutes the remaining 
        portion of the Petroleum Terminal.
    (b) Condition of Conveyance.--The Secretary may not make the 
conveyance under subsection (a) unless the Division agrees to utilize 
the property to be conveyed under that subsection solely for economic 
development purposes.
    (c) Consideration.--(1) As consideration for the conveyance under 
subsection (a), the Authority shall lease to the Air Force 
approximately one acre of the real property conveyed under that 
subsection, together with any improvements thereon, that constitutes 
the Aerospace Fuels Laboratory (also known as Building 14).
    (2) The real property leased under this subsection shall include 
the parking lot, outbuildings, and other improvements associated with 
the Aerospace Fuels Laboratory and such easements of ingress and egress 
to the real property, including easements for utilities, as are 
required for the operations of the Aerospace Fuels Laboratory.
    (3) As part of the lease of real property under this subsection, 
the Authority shall maintain around the real property for the term of 
the lease a zone, not less than 75 feet in depth, free of improvements 
or encumbrances.
    (4) The lease under this subsection shall be without cost to the 
United States.
    (5) The term of the lease under this subsection may not exceed 25 
years. If operations at the Aerospace Fuels Laboratory cease before the 
expiration of the term of the lease otherwise provided for under this 
subsection, the lease shall be deemed to have expired upon the 
cessation of such operations.
    (d) Conveyance Contingent on Expiration of Fuel Tanks Lease.--The 
Secretary may not make the conveyance under subsection (a) until the 
expiration of the lease referred to in paragraph (2)(B) of that 
subsection.
    (e) Environmental Remediation.--The Secretary may not make the 
conveyance under subsection (a) until the completion of any 
environmental remediation required with respect to the property to be 
conveyed under that subsection.
    (f) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be conveyed under subsection (a) 
shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost 
of the survey shall be borne by the Division.
    (g) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
under subsection (a), and the lease under subsection (c), as the 
Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
States.
                                 <all>
