
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2907 Introduced in House (IH)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2907

To provide for the issuance of a semipostal for the benefit of victims 
  of the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 
                     2001, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 20, 2001

Mrs. Capps (for herself, Mr. Shays, Mr. Dicks, Mr. Gilman, Mr. Andrews, 
Mr. English, Mr. Visclosky, Mrs. Roukema, Ms. Kilpatrick, Mrs. Morella, 
Mrs. Christensen, Mr. LaTourette, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Johnson of Illinois, 
 Mr. Reyes, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Radanovich, Mr. Hinchey, 
   Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. Grucci, Mr. Issa, Ms. 
Kaptur, Mr. Hayworth, Mr. Hinojosa, Mr. Paul, Mr. Udall of New Mexico, 
   Mr. Oberstar, Mr. Wynn, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Towns, Mr. Lantos, Mr. 
 Phelps, Mr. Scott, Ms. Pelosi, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. McKinney, Mr. Owens, 
    Ms. Rivers, Mr. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Frank, Mr. Stenholm, Mr. 
Doggett, Mr. Bishop, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Markey, 
  Mr. Clay, Mr. Skelton, Mr. Becerra, Mrs. McCarthy of New York, Ms. 
 Millender-McDonald, Mr. Kirk, Mr. Mascara, Mr. McNulty, Mr. McGovern, 
Ms. Hooley of Oregon, Mr. Gary G. Miller of California, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
  Etheridge, Mr. Sherman, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Dingell, Mr. Wamp, Mr. 
Udall of Colorado, Mr. Costello, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Holt, Mr. Abercrombie, 
   Mr. Frost, and Mr. King) introduced the following bill; which was 
referred to the Committee on Government Reform, and in addition to the 
Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined 
 by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
        fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the issuance of a semipostal for the benefit of victims 
  of the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 
                     2001, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``September 11th Families Stamp Act''.

SEC. 2. REQUIREMENT THAT A SEMIPOSTAL BE ISSUED FOR THE BENEFIT OF 
              VICTIMS OF THE TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST THE UNITED 
              STATES ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2001.

    (a) In General.--In order to afford the public a direct and 
tangible way to provide assistance to the families of individuals who 
were killed in the terrorist attacks against the United States on 
September 11, 2001, the United States Postal Service shall issue a 
semipostal in accordance with subsection (b).
    (b) Requirements.--The provisions of section 416 of title 39, 
United States Code, shall apply with respect to the semipostal 
described in subsection (a), subject to the following:
            (1) Price.--The price of the semipostal shall be equal to 
        the price of a regular first-class postage stamp plus an 
        additional 6 cents.
            (2) Disposition of amounts becoming available.--All amounts 
        becoming available from the sale of the semipostal (as 
        determined under such section 416 after taking into account any 
        amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (c)) shall be 
        transferred to the Office for Victims of Crime, Department of 
        Justice, under such arrangements as the Postal Service shall by 
        mutual agreement with that office establish in order to carry 
        out the purposes of this Act.
            (3) Duration.--Stamps under this section shall be issued 
        during the 2-year period beginning on December 1, 2001 (or such 
        earlier date as the Postal Service may determine).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Postal Service such sums as may be necessary to 
carry out this section (including reasonable costs attributable to the 
printing, sale, and distribution of the semipostal).

SEC. 3. SEPTEMBER 11TH FAMILIES FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established on the books of the 
Treasury a fund to be known as the ``September 11th Families Fund'' 
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the ``Fund''), to be 
administered by the Attorney General, acting through the Director of 
the Office for Victims of Crime.
    (b) Amounts.--The Fund shall consist of the amounts transferred to 
the Office for Victims of Crime pursuant to section 2(b)(2).
    (c) Use.--Subject to subsection (d), amounts in the Fund shall be 
used to provide assistance to the families of individuals who were 
killed in the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 
11, 2001.
    (d) Administrative Costs.--No cost incurred in providing assistance 
under subsection (c), or in administering the Fund, shall be paid from 
the Fund or set off against or otherwise deducted from any assistance 
to any individual.
    (e) Investment.--Amounts in the Fund shall be invested in 
accordance with section 9702 of title 31, United States Code, and any 
interest on, and proceeds from, any such investment shall be credited 
to and become a part of the Fund.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Attorney General such sums as may be necessary to 
carry out this section.

SEC. 4. DEFINITION.

    For purposes of this Act, the term ``semipostal'' has the meaning 
given such term by section 416 of title 39, United States Code.
                                 <all>
