
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 421 Reported in House (RH)]






                                                 House Calendar No. 158
107th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 421

                          [Report No. 107-465]

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4735) to reauthorize and 
improve the program of block grants to States for temporary assistance 
for needy families, improve access to quality child care, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                 May 15 (legislative day, May 14), 2002

    Ms. Pryce, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4735) to reauthorize and 
improve the program of block grants to States for temporary assistance 
for needy families, improve access to quality child care, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order without intervention of any point of order to consider in the 
House the bill (H.R. 4735) to reauthorize and improve the program of 
block grants to States for temporary assistance for needy families, 
improve access to quality child care, and for other purposes. The bill 
shall be considered as read for amendment. The previous question shall 
be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) two hours of 
debate on the bill, with 50 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means, 40 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chairman and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and the 
Workforce, and 30 minutes equally divided and controlled by the 
chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce; (2) an amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, if 
offered by Representative Cardin of Maryland or his designee, which 
shall be in order without intervention of any point of order, shall be 
considered as read, and shall be separately debatable for one hour 
equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent; and 
(3) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.




                                                 House Calendar No. 158

107th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 421

                          [Report No. 107-465]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4735) to reauthorize and 
improve the program of block grants to States for temporary assistance 
for needy families, improve access to quality child care, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                 May 15 (legislative day, May 14), 2002

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
