
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 663 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 663

    To authorize the President to present a gold medal on behalf of 
   Congress to Eugene McCarthy in recognitioin of his service to the 
                                Nation.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 29, 2001

  Mr. Wellstone (for himself and Mr. Dayton) introduced the following 
 bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Banking, 
                       Housing, and Urban Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To authorize the President to present a gold medal on behalf of 
   Congress to Eugene McCarthy in recognition of his service to the 
                                Nation.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) Eugene McCarthy has a distinguished record of public 
        service to the American people;
            (2) as a member of the United States Senate and House of 
        Representatives for more than 2 decades, as a candidate for the 
        Democratic presidential nomination, and as a private citizen 
        speaking out for reform of the political process, Eugene 
        McCarthy has made a lasting contribution to the Nation's 
        welfare;
            (3) Eugene McCarthy has exemplified the highest standards 
        of public service and dedication to constitutional principles 
        through his efforts to shape legislation on civil rights, tax 
        policy, social security and medicare, the minimum wage, 
        unemployment compensation, government reform, foreign policy, 
        and congressional oversight of the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (4) Eugene McCarthy's principled campaign for the 
        Democratic presidential nomination in 1968, and his courageous 
        stand regarding United States withdrawal from the war in 
        Vietnam inspired countless young people to believe that they 
        could make a difference in public life, underscored the role of 
        the Congress in foreign policy, and helped to hasten the end of 
        the most controversial war in American history; and
            (5) as a distinguished author, poet, and lecturer, Eugene 
        McCarthy has elevated the language of public dialogue in a way 
        that epitomizes the deepest and most cherished values of 
        American political life.

SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The President is authorized to 
present at the Capitol, on behalf of the Congress, a gold medal of 
appropriate design to Eugene McCarthy in recognition of his service to 
the Nation.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For the purpose of the presentation 
referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (in this 
Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall strike a gold medal with 
suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the 
Secretary.
    (c) Subsequent Arrangements for Presentation.--Subsection (a) shall 
not be construed as providing the consent of the House of 
Representatives or the Senate for the use of any particular part of the 
Capitol or the grounds of the Capitol for purposes of the presentation 
referred to in subsection (a).

SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    Under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, the 
Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal 
struck pursuant to section 2 at a price sufficient to cover the costs 
of the medals (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and 
overhead expenses) and the cost of the gold medal.

SEC. 4. NATIONAL MEDALS.

    The medals struck under this Act are national medals for purposes 
of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 5. FUNDING AND PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authorization.--There is hereby authorized to be charged 
against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund an amount not to 
exceed $30,000 to pay for the cost of the medals authorized by this 
Act.
    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sale of duplicate 
bronze medals under section 3 shall be deposited in the United States 
Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
                                 <all>
