
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5550 Introduced in House (IH)]







107th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5550

 To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform its penalty and 
                          interest provisions.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 3, 2002

 Mr. Houghton introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform its penalty and 
                          interest provisions.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; ETC.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Penalty and 
Interest Reform Act of 2002''.
    (b) Amendment of 1986 Code.--Except as otherwise expressly 
provided, whenever in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in 
terms of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, 
the reference shall be considered to be made to a section or other 
provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    (c) Table of Contents.--

Sec. 1. Short title; etc.
Sec. 2. Failure to pay estimated tax penalty converted to interest 
                            charge on accumulated unpaid balance.
Sec. 3. Exclusion from gross income for interest on overpayments of 
                            income tax by individuals.
Sec. 4. Abatement of interest.
Sec. 5. Deposits made to suspend running of interest on potential 
                            underpayments.
Sec. 6. Expansion of interest netting for individuals.
Sec. 7. Waiver of certain penalties for first-time unintentional minor 
                            errors.
Sec. 8. Frivolous tax submissions.
Sec. 9. Clarification of application of Federal tax deposit penalty.

SEC. 2. FAILURE TO PAY ESTIMATED TAX PENALTY CONVERTED TO INTEREST 
              CHARGE ON ACCUMULATED UNPAID BALANCE.

    (a) Penalty Moved to Interest Chapter of Code.--The Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating section 6654 as 
section 6641 and by moving section 6641 (as so redesignated) from part 
I of subchapter A of chapter 68 to the end of subchapter E of chapter 
67 (as added by subsection (e)(1) of this section).
    (b) Penalty Converted to Interest Charge.--The heading and 
subsections (a) and (b) of section 6641 (as so redesignated) are 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 6641. INTEREST ON FAILURE BY INDIVIDUAL TO PAY ESTIMATED INCOME 
              TAX.

    ``(a) In General.--Interest shall be paid on any underpayment of 
estimated tax by an individual for a taxable year for each day of such 
underpayment. The amount of such interest for any day shall be the 
product of the underpayment rate established under subsection (b)(2) 
multiplied by the amount of the underpayment.
    ``(b) Amount of Underpayment; Interest Rate.--For purposes of 
subsection (a)--
            ``(1) Amount.--The amount of the underpayment on any day 
        shall be the excess of--
                    ``(A) the sum of the required installments for the 
                taxable year the due dates for which are on or before 
                such day, over
                    ``(B) the sum of the amounts (if any) of estimated 
                tax payments made on or before such day on such 
                required installments.
            ``(2) Determination of interest rate.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The underpayment rate with 
                respect to any day in an installment underpayment 
                period shall be the underpayment rate established under 
                section 6621 for the first day of the calendar quarter 
                in which such installment underpayment period begins.
                    ``(B) Installment underpayment period.--For 
                purposes of subparagraph (A), the term `installment 
                underpayment period' means the period beginning on the 
                day after the due date for a required installment and 
                ending on the due date for the subsequent required 
                installment (or in the case of the 4th required 
                installment, the 15th day of the 4th month following 
                the close of a taxable year).
                    ``(C) Daily rate.--The rate determined under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be applied on a daily basis and 
                shall be based on the assumption of 365 days in a 
                calendar year.
            ``(3) Termination of estimated tax interest.--No day after 
        the end of the installment underpayment period for the 4th 
        required installment specified in paragraph (2)(B) for a 
        taxable year shall be treated as a day of underpayment with 
        respect to such taxable year.''.
    (c) Increase in Safe Harbor Where Tax is Small.--
            (1) In general.--Clause (i) of section 6641(d)(1)(B) (as so 
        redesignated) is amended to read as follows:
                            ``(i) the lesser of--
                                    ``(I) 90 percent of the tax shown 
                                on the return for the taxable year (or, 
                                if no return is filed, 90 percent of 
                                the tax for such year), or
                                    ``(II) the tax shown on the return 
                                for the taxable year (or, if no return 
                                is filed, the tax for such year) 
                                reduced (but not below zero) by $2,000, 
                                or''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Subsection (e) of section 6641 
        (as so redesignated) is amended by striking paragraph (1) and 
        redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (1) and (2), 
        respectively.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (e) (as 
        redesignated by subsection (c)(2)) and subsection (h) of 
        section 6641 (as so designated) are each amended by striking 
        ``addition to tax'' each place it occurs and inserting 
        ``interest''.
            (2) Section 167(g)(5)(D) is amended by striking ``6654'' 
        and inserting ``6641''.
            (3) Section 460(b)(1) is amended by striking ``6654'' and 
        inserting ``6641''.
            (4) Section 3510(b) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``section 6654'' in paragraph (1) 
                and inserting ``section 6641'';
                    (B) by amending paragraph (2)(B) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(B) no interest would be required to be paid (but 
                for this section) under 6641 for such taxable year by 
                reason of the $2,000 amount specified in section 
                6641(d)(1)(B)(i)(II).'';
                    (C) by striking ``section 6654(d)(2)'' in paragraph 
                (3) and inserting ``section 6641(d)(2)''; and
                    (D) by striking paragraph (4).
            (5) Section 6201(b)(1) is amended by striking ``6654'' and 
        inserting ``6641''.
            (6) Section 6601(h) is amended by striking ``6654'' and 
        inserting ``6641''.
            (7) Section 6621(b)(2)(B) is amended by striking ``addition 
        to tax under section 6654'' and inserting ``interest required 
        to be paid under section 6641''.
            (8) Section 6622(b) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Penalty for'' in the heading; and
                    (B) by striking ``addition to tax under section 
                6654 or 6655'' and inserting ``interest required to be 
                paid under section 6641 or addition to tax under 
                section 6655''.
            (9) Section 6658(a) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``6654, or 6655'' and inserting 
                ``or 6655, and no interest shall be required to be paid 
                under section 6641,''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or paying interest'' after ``the 
                tax'' in paragraph (2)(B)(ii).
            (10) Section 6665(b) is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by 
                striking ``, 6654,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2) by striking ``6654 or''.
            (11) Section 7203 is amended by striking ``section 6654 or 
        6655'' and inserting ``section 6655 or interest required to be 
        paid under section 6641''.
    (e) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Chapter 67 is amended by inserting after subchapter D 
        the following:

  ``Subchapter E--Interest on Failure by Individual to Pay Estimated 
                               Income Tax

                              ``Sec. 6641. Interest on failure by 
                                        individual to pay estimated 
                                        income tax.''.
            (2) The table of subchapters for chapter 67 is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new items:

                              ``Subchapter D. Notice requirements.
                              ``Subchapter E. Interest on failure by 
                                        individual to pay estimated 
                                        income tax.''.
            (3) The table of sections for part I of subchapter A of 
        chapter 68 is amended by striking the item relating to section 
        6654.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to installment payments for taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2002.

SEC. 3. EXCLUSION FROM GROSS INCOME FOR INTEREST ON OVERPAYMENTS OF 
              INCOME TAX BY INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--Part III of subchapter B of chapter 1 (relating to 
items specifically excluded from gross income) is amended by inserting 
after section 139 the following new section:

``SEC. 139A. EXCLUSION FROM GROSS INCOME FOR INTEREST ON OVERPAYMENTS 
              OF INCOME TAX BY INDIVIDUALS.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of an individual, gross income shall 
not include interest paid under section 6611 on any overpayment of tax 
imposed by this subtitle.
    ``(b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply in the case of a 
failure to claim items resulting in the overpayment on the original 
return if the Secretary determines that the principal purpose of such 
failure is to take advantage of subsection (a).
    ``(c) Special Rule for Determining Modified Adjusted Gross 
Income.--For purposes of this title, interest not included in gross 
income under subsection (a) shall not be treated as interest which is 
exempt from tax for purposes of sections 32(i)(2)(B) and 6012(d) or any 
computation in which interest exempt from tax under this title is added 
to adjusted gross income.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for part III of 
subchapter B of chapter 1 is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 139 the following new item:

                              ``Sec. 139A. Exclusion from gross income 
                                        for interest on overpayments of 
                                        income tax by individuals.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to interest received in calendar years beginning after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 4. ABATEMENT OF INTEREST.

    (a) Abatement of Interest With Respect to Erroneous Refund Check 
Without Regard to Size of Refund.--Paragraph (2) of section 6404(e) is 
amended by striking ``unless--'' and all that follows and inserting 
``unless the taxpayer (or a related party) has in any way caused such 
erroneous refund.''.
    (b) Abatement of Interest to Extent Interest is Attributable to 
Taxpayer Reliance on Written Statements of the IRS.--Subsection (f) of 
section 6404 is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Penalty or 
        Addition'' and inserting ``Interest, Penalty, or Addition''; 
        and
            (2) in paragraph (1) and in subparagraph (B) of paragraph 
        (2), by striking ``penalty or addition'' and inserting 
        ``interest, penalty, or addition''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to interest accruing on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 5. DEPOSITS MADE TO SUSPEND RUNNING OF INTEREST ON POTENTIAL 
              UNDERPAYMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter A of chapter 67 (relating to interest 
on underpayments) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:

``SEC. 6603. DEPOSITS MADE TO SUSPEND RUNNING OF INTEREST ON POTENTIAL 
              UNDERPAYMENTS, ETC.

    ``(a) Authority To Make Deposits Other Than As Payment of Tax.--A 
taxpayer may make a cash deposit with the Secretary which may be used 
by the Secretary to pay any tax imposed under subtitle A or B or 
chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 which has not been assessed at the time of 
the deposit. Such a deposit shall be made in such manner as the 
Secretary shall prescribe.
    ``(b) No Interest Imposed.--To the extent that such deposit is used 
by the Secretary to pay tax, for purposes of section 6601 (relating to 
interest on underpayments), the tax shall be treated as paid when the 
deposit is made.
    ``(c) Return of Deposit.--Except in a case where the Secretary 
determines that collection of tax is in jeopardy, the Secretary shall 
return to the taxpayer any amount of the deposit (to the extent not 
used for a payment of tax) which the taxpayer requests in writing.
    ``(d) Payment of Interest.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of section 6611 (relating 
        to interest on overpayments), a deposit which is returned to a 
        taxpayer shall be treated as a payment of tax for any period to 
        the extent (and only to the extent) attributable to a 
        disputable tax for such period. Under regulations prescribed by 
        the Secretary, rules similar to the rules of section 6611(b)(2) 
        shall apply.
            ``(2) Disputable tax.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of this section, 
                the term `disputable tax' means the amount of tax 
                specified at the time of the deposit as the taxpayer's 
                reasonable estimate of the maximum amount of any tax 
                attributable to disputable items.
                    ``(B) Safe harbor based on 30-day letter.--In the 
                case of a taxpayer who has been issued a 30-day letter, 
                the maximum amount of tax under subparagraph (A) shall 
                not be less than the amount of the proposed deficiency 
                specified in such letter.
            ``(3) Other definitions.--For purposes of paragraph (2)--
                    ``(A) Disputable item.--The term `disputable item' 
                means any item of income, gain, loss, deduction, or 
                credit if the taxpayer--
                            ``(i) has a reasonable basis for its 
                        treatment of such item, and
                            ``(ii) reasonably believes that the 
                        Secretary also has a reasonable basis for 
                        disallowing the taxpayer's treatment of such 
                        item.
                    ``(B) 30-day letter.--The term `30-day letter' 
                means the first letter of proposed deficiency which 
                allows the taxpayer an opportunity for administrative 
                review in the Internal Revenue Service Office of 
                Appeals.
            ``(4) Rate of interest.--The rate of interest allowable 
        under this subsection shall be the Federal short-term rate 
        determined under section 6621(b), compounded daily.
    ``(e) Use of Deposits.--
            ``(1) Payment of tax.--Except as otherwise provided by the 
        taxpayer, deposits shall be treated as used for the payment of 
        tax in the order deposited.
            ``(2) Returns of deposits.--Deposits shall be treated as 
        returned to the taxpayer on a last-in, first-out basis.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subchapter A of 
chapter 67 is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

                              ``Sec. 6603. Deposits made to suspend 
                                        running of interest on 
                                        potential underpayments, 
                                        etc.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        apply to deposits made after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act.
            (2) Coordination with deposits made under revenue procedure 
        84-58.--In the case of an amount held by the Secretary of the 
        Treasury or his delegate on the date of the enactment of this 
        Act as a deposit in the nature of a cash bond deposit pursuant 
to Revenue Procedure 84-58, the date that the taxpayer identifies such 
amount as a deposit made pursuant to section 6603 of the Internal 
Revenue Code (as added by this Act) shall be treated as the date such 
amount is deposited for purposes of such section 6603.

SEC. 6. EXPANSION OF INTEREST NETTING FOR INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (d) of section 6621 (relating to 
elimination of interest on overlapping periods of tax overpayments and 
underpayments) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``Solely 
for purposes of the preceding sentence, section 6611(e) shall not apply 
in the case of an individual.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to interest accrued after December 31, 2002.

SEC. 7. WAIVER OF CERTAIN PENALTIES FOR FIRST-TIME UNINTENTIONAL MINOR 
              ERRORS.

    (a) In General.--Section 6651 (relating to failure to file tax 
return or to pay tax) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(i) Treatment of First-Time Unintentional Minor Errors.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of a return of tax imposed 
        by subtitle A filed by an individual, the Secretary may waive 
        an addition to tax under subsection (a) if--
                    ``(A) the individual has a history of compliance 
                with the requirements of this title,
                    ``(B) it is shown that the failure is due to an 
                unintentional minor error,
                    ``(C) the penalty would be grossly disproportionate 
                to the action or expense that would have been needed to 
                avoid the error, and imposing the penalty would be 
                against equity and good conscience,
                    ``(D) waiving the penalty would promote compliance 
                with the requirements of this title and effective tax 
                administration, and
                    ``(E) the taxpayer took all reasonable steps to 
                remedy the error promptly after discovering it.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply if--
                    ``(A) the Secretary has waived any addition to tax 
                under this subsection with respect to any prior failure 
                by such individual,
                    ``(B) the failure is a mathematical or clerical 
                error (as defined in section 6213(g)(2)), or
                    ``(C) the failure is the lack of a required 
                signature.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2003.

SEC. 8. FRIVOLOUS TAX SUBMISSIONS.

    (a) Civil Penalties.--Section 6702 is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 6702. FRIVOLOUS TAX SUBMISSIONS.

    ``(a) Civil Penalty for Frivolous Tax Returns.--A person shall pay 
a penalty of $5,000 if--
            ``(1) such person files what purports to be a return of a 
        tax imposed by this title but which--
                    ``(A) does not contain information on which the 
                substantial correctness of the self-assessment may be 
                judged, or
                    ``(B) contains information that on its face 
                indicates that the self-assessment is substantially 
                incorrect; and
            ``(2) the conduct referred to in paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) is based on a position which the Secretary 
                has identified as frivolous under subsection (c), or
                    ``(B) reflects a desire to delay or impede the 
                administration of Federal tax laws.
    ``(b) Civil Penalty for Specified Frivolous Submissions.--
            ``(1) Imposition of Penalty.--Except as provided in 
        paragraph (3), any person who submits a specified frivolous 
        submission shall pay a penalty of $5,000.
            ``(2) Specified frivolous submission.--For purposes of this 
        section--
                    ``(A) Specified frivolous submission.--The term 
                `specified frivolous submission' means a specified 
                submission if any portion of such submission--
                            ``(i) is based on a position which the 
                        Secretary has identified as frivolous under 
                        subsection (c), or
                            ``(ii) reflects a desire to delay or impede 
                        the administration of Federal tax laws.
                    ``(B) Specified submission.--The term `specified 
                submission' means--
                            ``(i) a request for a hearing under--
                                    ``(I) section 6320 (relating to 
                                notice and opportunity for hearing upon 
                                filing of notice of lien), or
                                    ``(II) section 6330 (relating to 
                                notice and opportunity for hearing 
                                before levy), and
                            ``(ii) an application under--
                                    ``(I) section 7811 (relating to 
                                taxpayer assistance orders),
                                    ``(II) section 6159 (relating to 
                                agreements for payment of tax liability 
                                in installments), or
                                    ``(III) section 7122 (relating to 
                                compromises).
            ``(3) Opportunity to withdraw submission.--If the Secretary 
        provides a person with notice that a submission is a specified 
        frivolous submission and such person withdraws such submission 
        promptly after such notice, the penalty imposed under paragraph 
        (1) shall not apply with respect to such submission.
    ``(c) Listing of Frivolous Positions.--The Secretary shall 
prescribe (and periodically revise) a list of positions which the 
Secretary has identified as being frivolous for purposes of this 
subsection. The Secretary shall not include in such list any position 
that the Secretary determines meets the requirement of section 
6662(d)(2)(B)(ii)(II).
    ``(d) Reduction of Penalty.--The Secretary may reduce the amount of 
any penalty imposed under this section if the Secretary determines that 
such reduction would promote compliance with and administration of the 
Federal tax laws.
    ``(e) Penalties in Addition to Other Penalties.--The penalties 
imposed by this section shall be in addition to any other penalty 
provided by law.''.
    (b) Treatment of Frivolous Requests for Hearings Before Levy.--
            (1) Frivolous requests disregarded.--Section 6330 (relating 
        to notice and opportunity for hearing before levy) is amended 
        by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Frivolous Requests for Hearing, Etc.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this section, if the Secretary determines that any 
portion of a request for a hearing under this section or section 6320 
meets the requirement of clause (i) or (ii) of section 6702(b)(2)(A), 
then the Secretary may treat such portion as if it were never submitted 
and such portion shall not be subject to any further administrative or 
judicial review.''.
            (2) Preclusion from raising frivolous issues at hearing.--
        Section 6330(c)(4) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``(A)'' and inserting ``(A)(i)'';
                    (B) by striking ``(B)'' and inserting ``(ii)'';
                    (C) by striking the period at the end of the first 
                sentence and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (D) by inserting after subparagraph (A)(ii) (as so 
                redesignated) the following:
                    ``(B) the issue meets the requirement of clause (i) 
                or (ii) of section 6702(b)(2)(A).''.
            (3) Statement of grounds.--Section 6330(b)(1) is amended by 
        striking ``under subsection (a)(3)(B)'' and inserting ``in 
        writing under subsection (a)(3)(B) and states the grounds for 
        the requested hearing''.
    (c) Treatment of Frivolous Requests for Hearings Upon Filing of 
Notice of Lien.--Section 6320 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``under subsection 
        (a)(3)(B)'' and inserting ``in writing under subsection 
        (a)(3)(B) and states the grounds for the requested hearing'', 
        and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``and (e)'' and 
        inserting ``(e), and (g)''.
    (d) Treatment of Frivolous Applications for Offers-in-Compromise 
and Installment Agreements.--Section 7122 is amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Frivolous Submissions, Etc.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this section, if the Secretary determines that any portion 
of an application for an offer-in-compromise or installment agreement 
submitted under this section or section 6159 meets the requirement of 
clause (i) or (ii) of section 6702(b)(2)(A), then the Secretary may 
treat such portion as if it were never submitted and such portion shall 
not be subject to any further administrative or judicial review.''.
    (e) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for part I of 
subchapter B of chapter 68 is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 6702 and inserting the following new item:

                              ``Sec. 6702. Frivolous tax 
                                        submissions.''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to submissions made and issues raised after the date on which the 
Secretary first prescribes a list under section 6702(c) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by subsection (a).

SEC. 9. CLARIFICATION OF APPLICATION OF FEDERAL TAX DEPOSIT PENALTY.

    Nothing in section 6656 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall 
be construed to permit the percentage specified in subsection 
(b)(1)(A)(iii) thereof to apply other than in a case where the failure 
is for more than 15 days.
                                 <all>
