
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 97 Introduced in House (IH)]








109th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. J. RES. 97

  Making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2007, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 25, 2006

  Mr. Lewis of California introduced the following joint resolution; 
         which was referred to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
  Making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2007, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for the several departments, agencies, 
corporations, and other organizational units of Government for fiscal 
year 2007, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary under the authority 
and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2006 for continuing projects or activities (including the costs of 
direct loans and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically 
provided for in this joint resolution, that were conducted in fiscal 
year 2006, and for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
would be available in the following appropriations Acts:
            (1) The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2007.
            (2) The Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 
        2007 (in the House of Representatives), or the Energy and Water 
        Appropriations Act, 2007 (in the Senate).
            (3) The Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
        Programs Appropriations Act, 2007 (in the House of 
        Representatives), or the Department of State, Foreign 
        Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2007 (in 
        the Senate).
            (4) The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
        2007.
            (5) The Department of the Interior, Environment, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2007.
            (6) The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
        and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2007.
            (7) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2007.
            (8) The Military Construction, Military Quality of Life and 
        Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2007 (in the House of 
        Representatives), or the Military Construction and Veterans 
        Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2007 (in the 
        Senate).
            (9) The Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2007 (in the House of 
        Representatives), or the Departments of Commerce and Justice, 
        Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2007 (in the 
        Senate).
            (10) The Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban 
        Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and 
        Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2007 (in the House of 
        Representatives), or the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and 
        Urban Development, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2007 (in the Senate) and the District of 
        Columbia Appropriations Act, 2007 (in the Senate).
    (b) Whenever the amount that would be made available or the 
authority that would be granted for a project or activity under an Act 
listed in subsection (a) as passed by the House of Representatives as 
of October 1, 2006, is the same as the amount or authority that would 
be available or granted under the same or other pertinent Act as passed 
by the Senate as of October 1, 2006--
            (1) the project or activity shall be continued at a rate 
        for operations not exceeding the current rate or the rate 
        permitted by the actions of the House and the Senate, whichever 
        is lower, and under the authority and conditions provided in 
        applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal year 2006; or
            (2) if no amount or authority is made available or granted 
        for the project or activity by the actions of the House and the 
        Senate, the project or activity shall not be continued.
    (c) Whenever the amount that would be made available or the 
authority that would be granted for a project or activity under an Act 
listed in subsection (a) as passed by the House of Representatives as 
of October 1, 2006, is different from the amount or authority that 
would be available or granted under the same or other pertinent Act as 
passed by the Senate as of October 1, 2006--
            (1) the project or activity shall be continued at a rate 
        for operations not exceeding the current rate or the rate 
        permitted by the action of the House or the Senate, whichever 
        is lowest, and under the authority and conditions provided in 
        applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal year 2006; or
            (2) if the project or activity is included in the pertinent 
        Act of only one of the Houses, the project or activity shall be 
        continued under the appropriation, fund, or authority granted 
        by the one House, but at a rate for operations not exceeding 
        the current rate or the rate permitted by the action of the one 
        House, whichever is lower, and under the authority and 
        conditions provided in applicable appropriations Acts for 
        fiscal year 2006.
    (d) Whenever the pertinent Act covering a project or activity has 
been passed by only the House of Representatives as of October 1, 
2006--
            (1) the project or activity shall be continued under the 
        appropriations, fund, or authority granted by the House, at a 
        rate for operations not exceeding the current rate or the rate 
        permitted by the action of the House, whichever is lower, and 
        under the authority and conditions provided in applicable 
        appropriations Acts for fiscal year 2006; or
            (2) if the project or activity is funded in applicable 
        appropriations Acts for fiscal year 2006 and not included in 
        the pertinent Act of the House as of October 1, 2006, the 
        project or activity shall be continued under the appropriation, 
        fund, or authority granted by applicable appropriations Acts 
        for fiscal year 2006 at a rate for operations not exceeding the 
        current rate and under the authority and conditions provided in 
        applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal year 2006.
    (e) Whenever the pertinent Act covering a project or activity has 
been passed by neither the House of Representatives nor the Senate as 
of October 1, 2006, the project or activity shall be continued under 
the appropriation, fund, or authority granted by applicable 
appropriations Acts for fiscal year 2006 at a rate for operations not 
exceeding the current rate and under the authority and conditions 
provided in applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal year 2006.
    Sec. 102. (a) For purposes of section 101, the pertinent 
appropriations Acts for fiscal year 2007 covering the activities 
specified in subsection (c) shall be the Act listed in section 
101(a)(8) as passed by the House of Representatives, and H.R. 5631 
(109th Congress) as passed by the Senate.
    (b) For purposes of section 106(2) and 107, the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2007 covering the activities 
specified in subsection (c) shall be the Act listed in section 
101(a)(8).
    (c) The activities referred to in subsections (a) and (b) are the 
following activities of the Department of Defense:
            (1) Activities under the ``Basic Allowance for Housing'' 
        accounts, and the basic allowance for housing activities under 
        the ``Military Personnel'' accounts.
            (2) Activities under the ``Facilities Sustainment, 
        Restoration and Modernization'' accounts, and the facilities 
        sustainment, restoration and modernization activities under the 
        ``Operation and Maintenance'' accounts.
            (3) Activities under the ``Environmental Restoration'' 
        accounts.
            (4) Activities under the ``Defense Health Program'' 
        account.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104. No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any 
project or activity for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
were not available during fiscal year 2006.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to 
this joint resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures 
incurred for any project or activity during the period for which funds 
or authority for such project or activity are available under this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 106. Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution or 
in the applicable appropriations Act, appropriations and funds made 
available and authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution shall 
be available until whichever of the following first occurs: (1) the 
enactment into law of an appropriation for any project or activity 
provided for in this joint resolution; (2) the enactment into law of 
the applicable appropriations Act by both Houses without any provision 
for such project or activity; or (3) November 17, 2006.
    Sec. 107. Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution shall 
be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization 
whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108. Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without 
regard to the time limitations for submission and approval of 
apportionments set forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States 
Code, but nothing in this joint resolution may be construed to waive 
any other provision of law governing the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 109. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, for those programs that had high 
initial rates of operation or complete distribution of fiscal year 2006 
appropriations at the beginning of that fiscal year because of 
distributions of funding to States, foreign countries, grantees, or 
others, similar distributions of funds for fiscal year 2007 shall not 
be made and no grants shall be awarded for such programs funded by this 
joint resolution that would impinge on final funding prerogatives.
    Sec. 110. This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. No provision that is included in an appropriations Act 
listed in section 101(a), but that was not included in the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2006 and by its terms is applicable 
to more than one appropriation, fund, or authority, shall be applicable 
to any appropriation, fund, or authority provided in this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 112. No provision that is included in an appropriations Act 
listed in section 101(a), and that makes the availability of any 
appropriation provided therein dependent upon the enactment of 
additional authorizing or other legislation, shall be effective before 
the date set forth in section 106(3).
    Sec. 113. Funds appropriated by this joint resolution may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 
(22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and 
section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
414(a)(1)).
    Sec. 114. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments whose 
budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts for fiscal year 
2006, and for activities under the Food Stamp Act of 1977, activities 
shall be continued at the rate to maintain program levels under current 
law, under the authority and conditions provided in the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2006, to be continued through the 
date specified in the section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 106 of this joint resolution, funds 
shall be available and obligations for mandatory payments due on or 
about November 1, 2006, and December 1, 2006 may continue to be made.
    Sec. 115. Notwithstanding the second proviso under the heading 
``Rental Assistance Program'' in title III of the Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-97), the Secretary of 
Agriculture is authorized to enter into or renew contracts under 
section 512(a)(2) of the Housing Act of 1949 for one year.
    Sec. 116. The Secretary of Agriculture shall continue, through the 
date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution, the Water 
and Waste Systems Direct Loan Program under the authority and 
conditions (including the borrower's interest rate and fees as of 
September 1, 2006) provided by the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 
(Public Law 109-97).
    Sec. 117. Section 14704 of title 40, United States Code, shall be 
applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
joint resolution for ``October 1, 2006''.
    Sec. 118. The authorities provided by sections 2(b)(9) and 7 of the 
Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(9) and 635f), and 
section 1 of Public Law 103-428 shall continue in effect through the 
date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 119. Section 501(i) of H.R. 3425, as enacted into law by 
section 1000(a)(5) of division B of Public Law 106-113 (Appendix E, 113 
Stat. 1501A-313), as amended by section 591(b) of division D of Public 
Law 108-447 (118 Stat. 3037), shall continue in effect through the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 120. In addition to the amounts provided under section 101 of 
this joint resolution, amounts obligated in fiscal year 2006 from 
funding provided in section 458(a)(1) of the Higher Education Act (as 
reduced by the amount of account maintenance fees obligated to guaranty 
agencies for fiscal year 2006 pursuant to section 458(a)(1)(B) of that 
Act), shall be deemed to have been provided in an applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2006.
    Sec. 121. The authority provided by section 2011 of title 38, 
United States Code, shall continue in effect through the date specified 
in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 122. The authority provided by section 2808 of Public Law 108-
136, as amended by section 2809 of Public Law 109-163, shall continue 
in effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 123. The authority provided by subsection (a) of section 221 
of the Veterans Health Care, Capital Asset, and Business Improvement 
Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-170) shall continue in effect, 
notwithstanding subsection (d) of that section, through the earlier of 
(1) the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution; or 
(2) the date of the enactment into law of an authorization Act relating 
to major medical facility projects for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs.
    Sec. 124. Title VIII of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2005 
(Public Law 108-447, division B), shall continue in effect through the 
date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 125. Funds appropriated by section 101 of this joint 
resolution for International Space Station Cargo Crew Services/
International Partner Purchases within the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration may be obligated in the account and budget 
structure set forth in the pertinent Acts specified in section 
101(a)(9).
    Sec. 126. Except as provided for in section 101(b)(2), amounts made 
available under section 101 of this joint resolution for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid 
furloughs within such department or agency, consistent with enacted 
appropriations for fiscal year 2006, except that such authority 
provided under this section shall not be used until after the 
department or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer 
non-personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 127. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, the District of Columbia may expend 
local funds for programs and activities under the heading ``District of 
Columbia Funds'' for such programs and activities under title V of H.R. 
5576 (109th Congress), as passed by the House of Representatives, at 
the rate set forth under ``District of Columbia Funds, Summary of 
Expenses'' as included in the Fiscal Year 2007 Proposed Budget and 
Financial Plan submitted to the Congress by the District of Columbia on 
June 5, 2006.
    (b) Sections 131 and 132 of division B of Public Law 109-115 shall 
be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
joint resolution for ``September 30, 2006''.
    Sec. 128. The provisions of title II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11311 et seq.) shall continue in effect, 
notwithstanding section 209 of such Act, through the earlier of (1) the 
date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution; or (2) the 
date of the enactment into law of an authorization Act relating to the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act.
    Sec. 129. Funds appropriated by section 101 of this joint 
resolution for the Internal Revenue Service may be obligated in the 
account and budget structure set forth in title II of H.R. 5576 (109th 
Congress), as passed by the House of Representatives.
    Sec. 130. Activities authorized by title V of the Departments of 
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 may continue through the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 131. Section 255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 
1715z-20(g)) is amended by striking ``250,000'' and inserting 
``275,000''.
    Sec. 132. Section 403(f) of Public Law 103-356 (31 U.S.C. 501 note) 
shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) 
of this joint resolution for ``October 1, 2006''.
    This joint resolution may be cited as the ``Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2007''.
                                 <all>
