
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2371 Introduced in Senate (IS)]








109th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2371

    To permit the use of certain funds for recovery and mitigation 
  activities in the upper basin of the Missouri River, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 6, 2006

Mr. Thune (for himself and Mr. Johnson) introduced the following bill; 
 which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Environment and 
                              Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To permit the use of certain funds for recovery and mitigation 
  activities in the upper basin of the Missouri River, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. UPPER BASIN OF MISSOURI RIVER.

    (a) Use of Funds.--Notwithstanding the Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-103; 119 Stat. 2247), funds 
made available for recovery or mitigation activities in the lower basin 
of the Missouri River may be used for recovery or mitigation activities 
in the upper basin of the Missouri River, including the States of 
Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The matter under the heading ``missouri 
river mitigation, missouri, kansas, iowa, and nebraska'' of section 
601(a) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (100 Stat. 4143), 
as modified by section 334 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
1999 (113 Stat. 306), is amended by adding at the end the following: 
``The Secretary may carry out any recovery or mitigation activities in 
the upper basin of the Missouri River, including the States of Montana, 
Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota, using funds made available 
under this heading in accordance with the Endangered Species Act of 
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) and consistent with the project purposes 
of the Missouri River Mainstem System as authorized by section 10 of 
the Act of December 22, 1944 (commonly known as the `Flood Control Act 
of 1944') (58 Stat. 897).''.
                                 <all>
