
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5644 Introduced in House (IH)]








109th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5644

   To authorize higher education curriculum development and graduate 
      training in advanced energy and green building technologies.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 20, 2006

 Mr. McCaul of Texas (for himself, Mrs. Biggert, Mr. Hall, Mr. Ehlers, 
and Mr. Inglis of South Carolina) introduced the following bill; which 
                was referred to the Committee on Science

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To authorize higher education curriculum development and graduate 
      training in advanced energy and green building technologies.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Green Energy Education Act of 
2006''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITION.

    For the purposes of this Act:
            (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the National Science Foundation.
            (2) High performance building.--The term ``high performance 
        building'' has the meaning given that term in section 914(a) of 
        the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16194(a)).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.

SEC. 3. GRADUATE TRAINING IN ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Funding.--In carrying out research, development, demonstration, 
and commercial application activities authorized for the Department of 
Energy, the Secretary may contribute funds to the National Science 
Foundation for the Integrative Graduate Education and Research 
Traineeship program to support projects that enable graduate education 
related to such activities.
    (b) Consultation.--The Director shall consult with the Secretary 
when preparing solicitations and awarding grants for projects described 
in subsection (a).

SEC. 4. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT FOR HIGH PERFORMANCE BUILDING DESIGN.

    (a) Funding.--In carrying out advanced energy technology research, 
development, demonstration, and commercial application activities 
authorized for the Department of Energy related to high performance 
buildings, the Secretary may contribute funds to curriculum development 
activities at the National Science Foundation for the purpose of 
improving undergraduate or graduate interdisciplinary engineering and 
architecture education related to the design and construction of high 
performance buildings, including development of curricula, of 
laboratory activities, of training practicums, or of design projects. A 
primary goal of curriculum development activities supported under this 
section shall be to improve the ability of engineers, architects, and 
planners to work together on the incorporation of advanced energy 
technologies during the design and construction of high performance 
buildings.
    (b) Consultation.--The Director shall consult with the Secretary 
when preparing solicitations and awarding grants for projects described 
in subsection (a).
    (c) Priority.--In awarding grants with respect to which the 
Secretary has contributed funds under this section, the Director shall 
give priority to applications from departments, programs, or centers of 
a school of engineering that are partnered with schools, departments, 
or programs of design, architecture, and city, regional, or urban 
planning.
                                 <all>
