
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3648 Introduced in House (IH)]







109th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3648

  To impose additional fees with respect to immigration services for 
                       intracompany transferees.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 6, 2005

Mr. Sensenbrenner introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                     the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To impose additional fees with respect to immigration services for 
                       intracompany transferees.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FEES WITH RESPECT TO IMMIGRATION SERVICES FOR INTRACOMPANY 
              TRANSFEREES.

    Section 214(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1184(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(13)(A) The Secretary of State shall impose a fee on an employer 
when an alien files an application abroad for a visa authorizing 
initial admission to the United States as a nonimmigrant described in 
section 101(a)(15)(L) in order to be employed by the employer, if the 
alien is covered under a blanket petition described in paragraph 
(2)(A).
    ``(B) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall impose a fee on an 
employer filing a petition under paragraph (1) initially to grant an 
alien nonimmigrant status described in section 101(a)(15)(L) or to 
extend for the first time the stay of an alien having such status.
    ``(C) The amount of the fee imposed under subparagraph (A) or (B) 
shall be $1,500.
    ``(D) The fees imposed under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall only 
apply to principal aliens and not to spouses or children who are 
accompanying or following to join such principal aliens.
    ``(E) Fees collected under this paragraph shall be deposited in the 
Treasury, and shall not be available for expenditure until 
appropriated.
    ``(F)(i) An employer may not require an alien who is the 
beneficiary of the visa or petition for which a fee is imposed under 
this paragraph to reimburse, or otherwise compensate, the employer for 
part or all of the cost of such fee.
    ``(ii) Section 274A(g)(2) shall apply to a violation of clause (i) 
in the same manner as it applies to a violation of section 
274A(g)(1).''.
                                 <all>
