
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 402 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







109th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 402

To authorize ecosystem restoration projects for the Indian River Lagoon 
   and the Picayune Strand, Collier County, in the State of Florida.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 16, 2005

 Mr. Nelson of Florida (for himself and Mr. Martinez)  introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                      Environment and Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize ecosystem restoration projects for the Indian River Lagoon 
   and the Picayune Strand, Collier County, in the State of Florida.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Restoring the Everglades, an 
American Legacy Act of 2005''.

SEC. 2. INDIAN RIVER LAGOON, SOUTH FLORIDA.

    (a) Indian River Lagoon.--The Secretary of the Army may carry out 
the project for ecosystem restoration, water supply, flood control, and 
protection of water quality, Indian River Lagoon, South Florida, at a 
total cost of $1,207,288,000, with an estimated first Federal cost of 
$603,644,000 and an estimated first non-Federal cost of $603,644,000, 
in accordance with section 601 of the Water Resources Development Act 
of 2000 (114 Stat. 2680), in accordance with the recommendations of the 
report of the Chief of Engineers, dated August 6, 2004.
    (b) Deauthorizations.--As of the date of enactment of this Act, the 
following projects are not authorized:
            (1) The uncompleted portions of the project authorized by 
        section 601(b)(2)(C)(i) of the Water Resources Development Act 
        of 2000 (114 Stat. 2682), C-44 Basin Storage Reservoir of the 
        Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, at a total cost of 
        $112,562,000, with an estimated Federal cost of $56,281,000 and 
        an estimated non-Federal cost of $56,281,000.
            (2) The uncompleted portions of the project authorized by 
        section 203 of the Flood Control Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 740), 
        Martin County, Florida modifications to the Central and South 
        Florida Project, as contained in Senate Document 101, 90th 
        Congress, 2d Session, at a total cost of $15,471,000, with an 
        estimated Federal cost of $8,073,000 and an estimated non-
        Federal cost of $7,398,000.
            (3) The uncompleted portions of the project authorized by 
        section 203 of the Flood Control Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 740), 
        East Coast Backpumping, St. Lucie--Martin County, Spillway 
        Structure S-311 of the Central and South Florida Project, as 
        contained in House Document 369, 90th Congress, 2d Session, at 
        a total cost of $77,118,000, with an estimated Federal cost of 
        $55,124,000 and an estimated non-Federal cost of $21,994,000.

SEC. 3. PICAYUNE STRAND ECOSYSTEM RESTORATION, COLLIER COUNTY, FLORIDA.

    The Secretary of the Army may carry out the project for ecosystem 
restoration, Picayune Strand, Collier County, Florida, at a total cost 
of $362,612,000, with an estimated Federal cost of $181,306,000 and an 
estimated non-Federal cost of $181,306,000, in accordance with section 
601 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 (114 Stat. 2680), 
substantially in accordance with the project implementation report for 
the project, and subject to the conditions recommended in a final 
report of the Chief of Engineers, if a favorable report of the Chief is 
completed not later than December 31, 2005.
                                 <all>
