
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1939 Introduced in House (IH)]






109th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1939

To prohibit funds appropriated for the Export-Import Bank of the United 
States, any international financial institution, or the North American 
  Development Bank from being used for loans to any country until the 
 country has honored all United States requests to extradite criminals 
  who have committed a crime punishable by life imprisonment or death.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 27, 2005

 Mr. Rohrabacher introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                  the Committee on Financial Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To prohibit funds appropriated for the Export-Import Bank of the United 
States, any international financial institution, or the North American 
  Development Bank from being used for loans to any country until the 
 country has honored all United States requests to extradite criminals 
  who have committed a crime punishable by life imprisonment or death.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LIMITATION ON USE OF APPROPRIATED FUNDS BY THE EXPORT-IMPORT 
              BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.

    Section 2(b) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 
635(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(13) Prohibition Relating to Honoring of Certain Extradition 
Requests.--The Bank may not guarantee, insure, or extend credit, or 
participate in the extension of credit, to the government of any 
country or any agency or instrumentality of any government, until that 
government has honored all United States requests to extradite 
criminals who have committed a crime punishable by life imprisonment or 
death.''.

SEC. 2. LIMITATION ON USE OF APPROPRIATED FUNDS BY THE INTERNATIONAL 
              DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTIONS.

    Title XV of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 
262o--262o-2) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 1504. PROHIBITION RELATING TO HONORING OF CERTAIN EXTRADITION 
              REQUESTS.

    ``Funds appropriated for payment to an international financial 
institution (as defined in section 1701(c)(2)) shall not be made 
available to the institution unless the institution has made a binding 
commitment to the Secretary of the Treasury to not provide a loan or 
extend credit to the government of any country or any agency or 
instrumentality of any government, until that government has honored 
all United States requests to extradite criminals who have committed a 
crime punishable by life imprisonment or death.''.

SEC. 3. LIMITATION ON USE OF APPROPRIATED FUNDS BY THE NORTH AMERICAN 
              DEVELOPMENT BANK.

    Part 2 of subtitle D of title V of the North American Free Trade 
Agreement Implementation Act (22 U.S.C. 290m--290m-3) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 545. PROHIBITION RELATING TO HONORING OF CERTAIN EXTRADITION 
              REQUESTS.

    ``Funds appropriated for payment to the Bank shall not be made 
available to the Bank unless the Bank has made a binding commitment to 
the Secretary of the Treasury to not provide a loan or extend credit to 
any government or any agency or instrumentality of any government, 
until that government has honored all United States requests to 
extradite criminals who have committed a crime punishable by life 
imprisonment or death.''.
                                 <all>
