
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2780 Introduced in House (IH)]






109th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2780

    To direct the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for the 
 Transportation Security Administration to issue regulations requiring 
 turbojet aircraft of air carriers to be equipped with missile defense 
                    systems, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 7, 2005

 Mr. Israel (for himself and Ms. Bean) introduced the following bill; 
   which was referred to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in 
 addition to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To direct the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for the 
 Transportation Security Administration to issue regulations requiring 
 turbojet aircraft of air carriers to be equipped with missile defense 
                    systems, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Commercial Airline Missile Defense 
Act''.

SEC. 2. REGULATIONS REQUIRING MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for the 
Transportation Security Administration shall issue regulations that 
require all turbojet aircraft used by an air carrier for scheduled air 
service to be equipped with a missile defense system.
    (b) Schedule for Installation.--The regulations shall establish a 
schedule for the purchase and installation of missile defense systems 
on turbojet aircraft currently in service and turbojet aircraft 
contracted for before the date of issuance of the regulations.
    (c) New Aircraft.--The regulations shall also require that all 
turbojet aircraft contracted for on or after the date of issuance of 
the regulations by an air carrier for scheduled air service be equipped 
with a missile defense system.
    (d) Deadlines for Commencement of Installation.--The regulations 
shall require that installation and operation of missile defense 
systems begin not later than 180 days after the successful completion 
of operational test and evaluation, as certified by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security.

SEC. 3. PURCHASE OF MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS BY THE SECRETARY.

    The Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for the Transportation 
Security Administration shall purchase and make available to an air 
carrier such missile defense systems as may be necessary for the air 
carrier to comply with the regulations issued under subsections (a), 
(b), and (d) of section 2 with respect to turbojet aircraft used by the 
air carrier for scheduled air service.

SEC. 4. RESPONSIBILITY OF AIR CARRIER.

    Under the regulations issued under section 2, an air carrier shall 
be responsible for installing and operating a missile defense system 
purchased and made available by the Assistant Secretary under section 
3.

SEC. 5. PROGRESS REPORTS.

    Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, 
and every 6 months thereafter, the Assistant Secretary of Homeland 
Security for the Transportation Security Administration shall submit a 
report to Congress on the implementation of this Act, including the 
regulations issued to carry out this Act.

SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Aircraft and air carrier.--The terms ``aircraft'' and 
        ``air carrier'' have the meanings given such terms, 
        respectively, under section 40102 of title 49, United States 
        Code.
            (2) Missile defense system.--The term ``missile defense 
        system'' means an appropriate electronic system, as certified 
        by the Secretary of Homeland Security, which would 
        automatically--
                    (A) identify when the aircraft is threatened by an 
                incoming missile or other ordinance;
                    (B) detect the source of the threat; and
                    (C) disrupt the guidance system of the incoming 
                missile or other ordinance, which is intended to result 
                in the incoming missile or other ordinance being 
                diverted off course and missing the aircraft.
                                 <all>
