
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4503 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4503

To provide that outlays and revenues totals of the old-age, survivors, 
and disability insurance program under title II of the Social Security 
Act and of the related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
shall be excluded from official budget pronouncements of the Office of 
       Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             August 6, 1998

   Mr. Shaw introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on the Budget, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
 Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
   each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide that outlays and revenues totals of the old-age, survivors, 
and disability insurance program under title II of the Social Security 
Act and of the related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
shall be excluded from official budget pronouncements of the Office of 
       Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Social Security Budget Transparency 
Act of 1998''.

SEC. 2. REMOVING SOCIAL SECURITY FROM BUDGET PRONOUNCEMENTS.

    Any official statement issued by the Office of Management and 
Budget or by the Congressional Budget Office of surplus or deficit 
totals of the budget of the United States Government as submitted by 
the President or of the surplus or deficit totals of the congressional 
budget, and any description of, or reference to, such totals in any 
official publication or material issued by either of such Offices, 
shall exclude the outlays and revenues of the old-age, survivors, and 
disability insurance program under title II of the Social Security Act 
(including the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and 
the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund) and the related provisions 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
                                 <all>
