
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1182 Referral Instructions Senate (RIS)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1182

 To amend the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 
to limit consideration of nonemergency matters in emergency legislation 
 and permit matter that is extraneous to emergencies to be stricken as 
                       provided in the Byrd rule.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 16, 1997

  Ms. Snowe (for herself, Mr. Abraham, and Mr. Gramm) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred jointly pursuant to 
  the order of August 4, 1977, as modified by the order of April 11, 
 1986, to the Committees on the Budget and Governmental Affairs, with 
 instructions that if one Committee reports, the other Committee have 
                 thirty days to report or be discharged

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 
to limit consideration of nonemergency matters in emergency legislation 
 and permit matter that is extraneous to emergencies to be stricken as 
                       provided in the Byrd rule.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Spending Control Act of 
1997''.

SEC. 2. TREATMENT OF EMERGENCY SPENDING.

    (a) Emergency Appropriations.--Section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 is amended by 
adding at the end the following new sentence: ``However, OMB shall not 
adjust any discretionary spending limit under this clause for any 
statute that designates appropriations as emergency requirements if 
that statute contains an appropriation for any other matter, event, or 
occurrence, but that statute may contain rescissions of budget 
authority.''.
    (b) Emergency Legislation.--Section 252(e) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 is amended by adding at the 
end the following new sentence: ``However, OMB shall not designate any 
such amounts of new budget authority, outlays, or receipts as emergency 
requirements in the report required under subsection (d) if that 
statute contains any other provisions that are not so designated, but 
that statute may contain provisions that reduce direct spending.''.
    (c) New Point of Order.--Title IV of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

                 ``point of order regarding emergencies

    ``Sec. 407. (a) In General.--It shall not be in order in the House 
of Representatives or the Senate to consider any bill or joint 
resolution, or amendment thereto or conference report thereon, 
containing an appropriation or direct spending designated as an 
emergency for purposes of section 251(b)(2)(D) or 252(c) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 if it also 
provides an appropriation or direct spending for any non-emergency item 
or contains any other matter not relevant to the matter designated as 
an emergency, but that bill or joint resolution, amendment, or 
conference report may contain rescissions of budget authority or 
reductions of direct spending, or that amendment may reduce amounts for 
that emergency.
    ``(b) Matter To Be Stricken.--A point of order may be raised under 
this section against a provision violating this section as provided for 
extraneous matter in subsections (d) and (e) of section 313.''.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents set forth in 
section 1(b) of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 
1974 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 407 the 
following new item:

``Sec.  407. Point of order regarding emergencies.''.
                                 <all>
