
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2646 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2646

    To authorize the Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial Foundation to 
 establish a memorial in the District of Columbia or its environs, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

             October 20 (legislative day, October 2), 1998

  Mr. McCain introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To authorize the Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial Foundation to 
 establish a memorial in the District of Columbia or its environs, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH MEMORIAL.

    (a) In General.--The Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial Foundation is 
authorized to establish a memorial on Federal land in the District of 
Columbia or its environs to honor disabled American veterans who have 
served in the Armed Forces of the United States.
    (b) Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works.--The 
establishment of the memorial authorized by subsection (a) shall be in 
accordance with the Act entitled ``An Act to provide standards for 
placement of commemorative works on certain Federal lands in the 
District of Columbia and its environs, and for other purposes'', 
approved November 14, 1986 (40 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).

SEC. 2. PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.

    The Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial Foundation shall be solely 
responsible for acceptance of contributions for, and payment of the 
expenses of, the establishment of the memorial authorized by section 
1(a). No Federal funds may be used to pay any expense of the 
establishment of the memorial.

SEC. 3. DEPOSIT OF EXCESS FUNDS.

    If, upon payment of all expenses of the establishment of the 
memorial authorized by section 1(a) (including the maintenance and 
preservation amount provided for in section 8(b) of the Act referred to 
in section 1(b)), or upon expiration of the authority for the memorial 
under section 10(b) of such Act, there remains a balance of funds 
received for the establishment of the memorial, the Disabled Veterans' 
LIFE Memorial Foundation shall transmit the amount of the balance to 
the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in the account provided for 
in section 8(b)(1) of such Act.
                                 <all>
