
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 540 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

  1st Session
                                H. R. 540


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 17, 2005

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to convey the Newlands 
   Project Headquarters and Maintenance Yard Facility to the Truckee-
                      Carson Irrigation District.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,


SECTION 1. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Table of contents.
 TITLE I--NEWLANDS PROJECT HEADQUARTERS AND MAINTENANCE YARD FACILITY 
                                TRANSFER

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Conveyance of Newlands Project Headquarters and Maintenance 
                            Yard Facility.
    TITLE II--INLAND EMPIRE AND CUCAMONGA VALLEY RECYCLING PROJECTS

Sec. 201. Inland Empire and Cucamonga Valley recycling projects.
            TITLE III--RIVERSIDE-CORONA FEEDER WATER PROJECT

Sec. 301. Planning, design, and construction of the Riverside-Corona 
                            Feeder.
Sec. 302. Project authorizations.
TITLE IV--AINSWORTH UNIT, SANDHILLS DIVISION, PICK-SLOAN MISSOURI BASIN 
                                PROGRAM

Sec. 401. Ainsworth Unit, Sandhills Division, Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin 
                            Program.
              TITLE V--WICHITA PROJECT EQUUS BEDS DIVISION

Sec. 501. Short title.
Sec. 502. Equus Beds Division.
  TITLE VI--LOWER RIO GRANDE VALLEY WATER RESOURCES CONSERVATION AND 
                              IMPROVEMENT

Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Authorization of additional projects and activities under the 
                            lower rio grande water conservation and 
                            improvement program.
Sec. 603. Reauthorization of appropriations for lower rio grande 
                            construction.
Sec. 604. Sunset provision.
    TITLE VII--BROWNSVILLE PUBLIC UTILITY BOARD WATER RECYCLING AND 
                         DESALINIZATION PROJECT

Sec. 701. Brownsville Public Utility Board water recycling and 
                            desalinization project.
       TITLE VIII--EL PASO, TEXAS, WATER RECLAMATION, REUSE, AND 
                         DESALINIZATION PROJECT

Sec. 801. El Paso, Texas, water reclamation, reuse, and desalinization 
                            project.

 TITLE I--NEWLANDS PROJECT HEADQUARTERS AND MAINTENANCE YARD FACILITY 
                                TRANSFER

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

     This title may be cited as the ``Newlands Project Headquarters and 
Maintenance Yard Facility Transfer Act''.

SEC. 102. CONVEYANCE OF NEWLANDS PROJECT HEADQUARTERS AND MAINTENANCE 
              YARD FACILITY.

    (a) Conveyance.--The Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the 
Truckee-Carson Irrigation District, Nevada, as soon as practicable 
after the date of the enactment of this Act and in accordance with all 
applicable law and the terms of the memorandum of agreement between the 
District and the Secretary dated June 9, 2003 (Contract No. 3-LC-20-
8052), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
real property within the Newlands Projects, Nevada, known as 2666 
Harrigan Road, Fallon, Nevada, and identified for disposition on the 
map entitled ``Newlands Project Headquarters and Maintenance Yard 
Facility''.
    (b) Treatment of Proceeds From Fallon Freight Yard as 
Consideration.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the 
contrary, amounts received by the United States for the lease and sale 
of Newlands Project lands comprising the Fallon Freight Yard shall, for 
purposes of this section, be treated as payment in full of 
consideration for the property conveyed under subsection (a).
    (c) Report.--If the Secretary has not completed such conveyance 
within 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall submit a report to the Congress explaining the reasons the 
conveyance has not been completed and stating the date by which the 
conveyance will be completed.
    (d) Environmental Review, Remediation, and Removal.--The Secretary 
may not make any conveyance under this section until the completion 
with respect to the conveyance, in accordance with the memorandum of 
agreement referred to in subsection (a), of--
            (1) compliance with requirements relating to the National 
        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. et seq. 4321 et 
        seq.) and cultural resources; and
            (2) environmental site assessments, remediation, or 
        removal.
    (e) Liability.--The United States shall not be liable for damages 
of any kind arising out of any act or omission by, or occurrence 
relating to, the Truckee-Carson Irrigation District or its employees, 
agents, or contractors relating to the property conveyed under this 
section and occurring prior to, on, or after the date of such 
conveyance.

    TITLE II--INLAND EMPIRE AND CUCAMONGA VALLEY RECYCLING PROJECTS

SEC. 201. INLAND EMPIRE AND CUCAMONGA VALLEY RECYCLING PROJECTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Inland Empire 
Regional Water Recycling Initiative''.
    (b) In General.--The Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study 
and Facilities Act (Public Law 102-575, Title XVI; 43 U.S.C. 390h et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 1637. INLAND EMPIRE REGIONAL WATER RECYCLING PROJECT.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the Inland 
Empire Utilities Agency, may participate in the design, planning, and 
construction of the Inland Empire regional water recycling project 
described in the report submitted under section 1606(c).
    ``(b) Cost Sharing.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--Funds provided by the Secretary shall not be 
used for operation and maintenance of the project described in 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000.
    ``(e) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
the enactment of this section.

``SEC. 1638. CUCAMONGA VALLEY WATER RECYCLING PROJECT.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the Cucamonga 
Valley Water District, may participate in the design, planning, and 
construction of the Cucamonga Valley Water District satellite recycling 
plants in Rancho Cucamonga, California, to reclaim and recycle 
approximately 2 million gallons per day of domestic wastewater.
    ``(b) Cost Sharing.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the capital 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--Funds provided by the Secretary shall not be 
used for operation and maintenance of the project described in 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section, $10,000,000.
    ``(e) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
the enactment of this section.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--The table of sections in section 2 of 
Public Law 102-575 is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 1636 the following:

``1637. Inland Empire Regional Water Recycling Program.
``1638. Cucamonga Valley Water Recycling Project.''.

            TITLE III--RIVERSIDE-CORONA FEEDER WATER PROJECT

SEC. 301. PLANNING, DESIGN, AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE RIVERSIDE-CORONA 
              FEEDER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with 
the Western Municipal Water District, may participate in a project to 
plan, design, and construct a water supply project, the Riverside-
Corona Feeder, which includes 20 groundwater wells and 28 miles of 
pipeline in San Bernardino and Riverside Counties, California.
    (b) Agreements and Regulations.--The Secretary may enter into such 
agreements and promulgate such regulations as are necessary to carry 
out this section.
    (c) Federal Cost Share.--
            (1) Planning, design, construction.--The Federal share of 
        the cost to plan, design, and construct the project described 
        in subsection (a) shall be the lesser of 35 percent of the 
        total cost of the project or $50,000,000.
            (2) Studies.--The Federal share of the cost to complete the 
        necessary planning study associated with the project described 
        in subsection (a) shall not exceed 50 percent of the total 
        study cost.
    (d) In-Kind Services.--In-kind services performed by the Western 
Municipal Water District shall be considered a part of the local cost 
share to complete the project described in subsection (a).
    (e) Limitation.--Funds provided by the Secretary under this section 
shall not be used for operation or maintenance of the project described 
in subsection (a).
    (f) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
the enactment of this section.

SEC. 302. PROJECT AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study 
and Facilities Act (Public Law 102-575, title XVI; 43 U.S.C. 390h et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 163_. YUCAIPA VALLEY REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY RENEWAL PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
Yucaipa Valley Water District, may participate in the design, planning, 
and construction of projects to treat impaired surface water, reclaim 
and reuse impaired groundwater, and provide brine disposal within the 
Santa Ana Watershed described in the report submitted under section 
1606.
    ``(b) Cost Sharing.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--Funds provided by the Secretary shall not be 
used for operation or maintenance of the project described in 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000.
    ``(e) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
the enactment of this section.

``SEC. 163_. CITY OF CORONA WATER UTILITY, CALIFORNIA, WATER RECYCLING 
              AND REUSE PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the City 
of Corona Water Utility, California, is authorized to participate in 
the design, planning, and construction of, and land acquisition for, a 
project to reclaim and reuse wastewater, including degraded 
groundwaters, within and outside of the service area of the City of 
Corona Water Utility, California.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.
    ``(d) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
the enactment of this section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--The table of sections in section 2 of 
Public Law 102-575 is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 163_ the following:

``Sec. 163_. Yucaipa Valley Regional Water Supply Renewal Project.
``Sec. 163_. City of Corona Water Utility, California, water recycling 
                            and reuse project.''.

TITLE IV--AINSWORTH UNIT, SANDHILLS DIVISION, PICK-SLOAN MISSOURI BASIN 
                                PROGRAM

SEC. 401. AINSWORTH UNIT, SANDHILLS DIVISION, PICK-SLOAN MISSOURI BASIN 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall extend for the 
period described in subsection (b) the water service contract for the 
Ainsworth Unit, Sandhills Division, Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program, 
Nebraska, consisting of--
            (1) the water service contract entered into by the 
        Secretary of the Interior under--
                    (A) section 9(e) of the Reclamation Project Act of 
                1939 (43 U.S.C. 485h(e));
                    (B) section 9(c) of the Act of December 22, 1944 
                (58 Stat. 887, chapter 665);
                    (C) the Act of August 21, 1954 (68 Stat. 757, 
                chapter 781); and
                    (D) the Act of May 18, 1956 (70 Stat. 160, chapter 
                285); and
            (2) the water service contract for the set project located 
        in Cherry, Brown, and Rock Counties, Nebraska, for the use of a 
        part of the waters of the Snake River, a tributary of the 
        Niobrara River.
    (b) Period of Extension.--The water service contract described in 
subsection (a) shall be extended for 4 years after the date on which 
the contract expires under the water service contract and law in 
existence before the date of enactment of this Act.

              TITLE V--WICHITA PROJECT EQUUS BEDS DIVISION

SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Wichita Project Equus Beds 
Division Authorization Act of 2005''.

SEC. 502. EQUUS BEDS DIVISION.

    The Act entitled ``An Act to provide for the construction of the 
Cheney division, Wichita Federal reclamation project, Kansas, and for 
other purposes'' (Public Law 86-787; 74 Stat. 1026) is amended by 
adding the following new section:

``SEC. 10. EQUUS BEDS DIVISION.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary of the Interior may assist in 
the funding and implementation of the Equus Beds Aquifer Recharge and 
Recovery Component which is a part of the `Integrated Local Water 
Supply Plan, Wichita, Kansas' (referred to in this section as the 
`Equus Beds Division'). Construction of the Equus Beds Division shall 
be in substantial accordance with the plans and designs.
    ``(b) Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement.--Operation, 
maintenance, and replacement of the Equus Beds Division, including 
funding for those purposes, shall be the sole responsibility of the 
City of Wichita, Kansas. The Equus Beds Division shall be operated in 
accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
    ``(c) Agreements.--The Secretary of the Interior may enter into, or 
agree to amendments of, cooperative agreements and other appropriate 
agreements to carry out this section.
    ``(d) Administrative Costs.--From funds made available for this 
section, the Secretary of the Interior may charge an appropriate share 
related to administrative costs incurred.
    ``(e) Plans and Analyses Consistent With Federal Law.--Before 
obligating funds for design or construction under this section, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall work cooperatively with the City of 
Wichita, Kansas, to use, to the extent possible, plans, designs, and 
engineering and environmental analyses that have already been prepared 
by the City for the Equus Beds Division. The Secretary of the Interior 
shall assure that such information is used consistent with applicable 
Federal laws and regulations, including principles and guidelines used 
in preparing feasibility level project studies.
    ``(f) Title; Responsibility; Liability.--Nothing in this section or 
assistance provided under this section shall be construed to transfer 
title, responsibility, or liability related to the Equus Beds Division 
(including portions or features thereof) to the United States.
    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated as the Federal share of the total cost of the Equus Beds 
Division, an amount not to not exceed 25 percent of the total cost or 
$30,000,000 (January, 2003 prices), whichever is less, plus or minus 
such amounts, if any, as may be justified by reason of ordinary 
fluctuations in construction costs as indicated by engineering cost 
indexes applicable to the type of construction involved herein, 
whichever is less. Such sums shall be nonreimbursable.
    ``(h) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
the enactment of this section.''.

  TITLE VI--LOWER RIO GRANDE VALLEY WATER RESOURCES CONSERVATION AND 
                              IMPROVEMENT

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Lower Rio Grande Valley Water 
Resources Conservation and Improvement Act of 2005''.

SEC. 602. AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL PROJECTS AND ACTIVITIES UNDER THE 
              LOWER RIO GRANDE WATER CONSERVATION AND IMPROVEMENT 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Additional Projects.--Section 4(a) of the Lower Rio Grande 
Valley Water Resources Conservation and Improvement Act of 2000 (Public 
Law 106-576; 114 Stat. 3067) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(20) In Cameron County, Texas, Bayview Irrigation 
        District No. 11, water conservation and improvement projects as 
        identified in the March 3, 2004, engineering report by NRS 
        Consulting Engineers at a cost of $1,425,219.
            ``(21) In the Cameron County, Texas, Brownsville Irrigation 
        District, water conservation and improvement projects as 
        identified in the February 11, 2004, engineering report by NRS 
        Consulting Engineers at a cost of $722,100.
            ``(22) In the Cameron County, Texas Harlingen Irrigation 
        District No. 1, water conservation and improvement projects as 
        identified in the March, 2004, engineering report by Axiom-
        Blair Engineering at a cost of $4,173,950.
            ``(23) In the Cameron County, Texas, Cameron County 
        Irrigation District No. 2, water conservation and improvement 
        projects as identified in the February 11, 2004, engineering 
        report by NRS Consulting Engineers at a cost of $8,269,576.
            ``(24) In the Cameron County, Texas, Cameron County 
        Irrigation District No. 6, water conservation and improvement 
        projects as identified in an engineering report by Turner 
        Collie Braden, Inc., at a cost of $5,607,300.
            ``(25) In the Cameron County, Texas, Adams Gardens 
        Irrigation District No. 19, water conservation and improvement 
        projects as identified in the March, 2004, engineering report 
        by Axiom-Blair Engineering at a cost of $2,500,000.
            ``(26) In the Hidalgo and Cameron Counties, Texas, Hidalgo 
        and Cameron Counties Irrigation District No. 9, water 
        conservation and improvement projects as identified by the 
        February 11 engineering report by NRS Consulting Engineers at a 
        cost of $8,929,152.
            ``(27) In the Hidalgo and Willacy Counties, Texas, Delta 
        Lake Irrigation District, water conservation and improvement 
        projects as identified in the March, 2004, engineering report 
        by Axiom-Blair Engineering at a cost of $8,000,000.
            ``(28) In the Hidalgo County, Texas, Hidalgo County 
        Irrigation District No. 2, a water conservation and improvement 
        project identified in the engineering reports attached to a 
        letter dated February 11, 2004, from the district's general 
        manager, at a cost of $5,312,475.
            ``(29) In the Hidalgo County, Texas, Hidalgo County 
        Irrigation District No. 1, water conservation and improvement 
        projects identified in an engineering report dated March 5, 
        2004, by Melden and Hunt, Inc. at a cost of $5,595,018.
            ``(30) In the Hidalgo County, Texas, Hidalgo County 
        Irrigation District No. 6, water conservation and improvement 
        projects as identified in the March, 2004, engineering report 
        by Axiom-Blair Engineering at a cost of $3,450,000.
            ``(31) In the Hidalgo County, Texas Santa Cruz Irrigation 
        District No. 15, water conservation and improvement projects as 
        identified in an engineering report dated March 5, 2004, by 
        Melden and Hunt, Inc. at a cost of $4,609,000.
            ``(32) In the Hidalgo County, Texas, Engelman Irrigation 
        District, water conservation and improvement projects as 
        identified in an engineering report dated March 5, 2004, by 
        Melden and Hunt, Inc. at a cost of $2,251,480.
            ``(33) In the Hidalgo County, Texas, Valley Acres Water 
        District, water conservation and improvement projects as 
        identified in an engineering report dated March, 2004, by 
        Axiom-Blair Engineering at a cost of $500,000.
            ``(34) In the Hudspeth County, Texas, Hudspeth County 
        Conservation and Reclamation District No. 1, water conservation 
        and improvement projects as identified in the March, 2004, 
        engineering report by Axiom-Blair Engineering at a cost of 
        $1,500,000.
            ``(35) In the El Paso County, Texas, El Paso County Water 
        Improvement District No. 1, water conservation and improvement 
        projects as identified in the March, 2004, engineering report 
        by Axiom-Blair Engineering at a cost of $10,500,000.
            ``(36) In the Hidalgo County, Texas, Donna Irrigation 
        District, water conservation and improvement projects 
        identified in an engineering report dated March 22, 2004, by 
        Melden and Hunt, Inc. at a cost of $2,500,000.
            ``(37) In the Hidalgo County, Texas, Hidalgo County 
        Irrigation District No. 16, water conservation and improvement 
        projects identified in an engineering report dated March 22, 
        2004, by Melden and Hunt, Inc. at a cost of $2,800,000.
            ``(38) The United Irrigation District of Hidalgo County 
        water conservation and improvement projects as identified in a 
        March 2004, engineering report by Sigler Winston, Greenwood and 
        Associates at a cost of $6,067,021.''.
    (b) Inclusion of Activities to Conserve Water or Improve Supply; 
Transfers Among Projects.--Section 4 of such Act (Public Law 106-576; 
114 Stat. 3067) is further amended by redesignating subsection (c) as 
subsection (e), and by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Inclusion of Activities to Conserve Water or Improve 
Supply.--In addition to the activities identified in the engineering 
reports referred to in subsection (a), each project that the Secretary 
conducts or participates in under subsection (a) may include any of the 
following:
            ``(1) The replacement of irrigation canals and lateral 
        canals with buried pipelines.
            ``(2) The impervious lining of irrigation canals and 
        lateral canals.
            ``(3) Installation of water level, flow measurement, pump 
        control, and telemetry systems.
            ``(4) The renovation and replacement of pumping plants.
            ``(5) Other activities that will result in the conservation 
        of water or an improved supply of water.
    ``(d) Transfers Among Projects.--Of amounts made available for a 
project referred to in any of paragraphs (20) through (38) of 
subsection (a), the Secretary may transfer and use for another such 
project up to 10 percent.''.

SEC. 603. REAUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR LOWER RIO GRANDE 
              CONSTRUCTION.

    Section 4(e) of the Lower Rio Grande Valley Water Resources 
Conservation and Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-576; 114 Stat. 
3067), as redesignated by section 602(b) of this title, is further 
amended by inserting before the period the following: ``for projects 
referred to in paragraphs (1) through (19) of subsection (a), and 
$42,356,145 (2004 dollars) for projects referred to in paragraphs (20) 
through (38) of subsection (a)''.

SEC. 604. SUNSET PROVISION.

    The authority of the Secretary to carry out the projects added by 
paragraphs (20) through (38) of the amendment made by section 602(a) of 
this title shall terminate 10 years after the date of the enactment of 
this section.

    TITLE VII--BROWNSVILLE PUBLIC UTILITY BOARD WATER RECYCLING AND 
                         DESALINIZATION PROJECT

SEC. 701. BROWNSVILLE PUBLIC UTILITY BOARD WATER RECYCLING AND 
              DESALINIZATION PROJECT.

    (a) In General.--The Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study 
and Facilities Act (Public Law 102-575, title XVI; 43 U.S.C. 390h et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 163__. BROWNSVILLE PUBLIC UTILITY BOARD WATER RECYCLING AND 
              DESALINIZATION PROJECT.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
Brownsville Public Utility Board, may participate in the design, 
planning, and construction of facilities to reclaim, reuse, and treat 
impaired waters in the Brownsville, Texas, area.
    ``(b) Cost Sharing.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--Funds provided by the Secretary shall not be 
used for operation and maintenance of the project described in 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
the enactment of this section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections in section 2 of 
Public Law 102-575 is amended by inserting after the last item relating 
to title XVI the following:

``163_. Brownsville Public Utility Board water recycling and 
                            desalinization project.''.

       TITLE VIII--EL PASO, TEXAS, WATER RECLAMATION, REUSE, AND 
                         DESALINIZATION PROJECT

SEC. 801. EL PASO, TEXAS, WATER RECLAMATION, REUSE, AND DESALINIZATION 
              PROJECT.

    (a) Authorization.--The Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater 
Study and Facilities Act (Public Law 102-575, title XVI; 43 U.S.C. 390h 
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 16XX. EL PASO, TEXAS, WATER RECLAMATION, REUSE, AND 
              DESALINIZATION PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the State 
and local authorities, is authorized to participate in the design, 
planning, and construction of the El Paso Water Reclamation, Reuse, and 
Desalinization project to reclaim and reuse wastewater and to treat and 
reuse impaired and brackish groundwater in the service area of the El 
Paso Water Utilities Public Service Board, El Paso, Texas.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.
    ``(d) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
the enactment of this section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections in section 2 of such 
Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 16xx the 
following:

``Sec. 16xx. El Paso, Texas, water reclamation, reuse, and 
                            desalinization project.''.

            Passed the House of Representatives May 16, 2005.

            Attest:

                                                 JEFF TRANDAHL,

                                                                 Clerk.
