
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 997 Reported in House (RH)]







                                                 House Calendar No. 226
109th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 997

                          [Report No. 109-647]

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2965) to amend title 18, 
United States Code, to require Federal Prison Industries to compete for 
  its contracts minimizing its unfair competition with private sector 
 firms and their non-inmate workers and empowering Federal agencies to 
   get the best value for taxpayers' dollars, to provide a five-year 
  period during which Federal Prison Industries adjusts to obtaining 
   inmate work opportunities through other than its mandatory source 
      status, to enhance inmate access to remedial and vocational 
opportunities and other rehabilitative opportunities to better prepare 
 inmates for a successful return to society, to authorize alternative 
 inmate work opportunities in support of non-profit organizations and 
         other public service programs, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 12, 2006

   Mr. Gingrey, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2965) to amend title 18, 
United States Code, to require Federal Prison Industries to compete for 
  its contracts minimizing its unfair competition with private sector 
 firms and their non-inmate workers and empowering Federal agencies to 
   get the best value for taxpayers' dollars, to provide a five-year 
  period during which Federal Prison Industries adjusts to obtaining 
   inmate work opportunities through other than its mandatory source 
      status, to enhance inmate access to remedial and vocational 
opportunities and other rehabilitative opportunities to better prepare 
 inmates for a successful return to society, to authorize alternative 
 inmate work opportunities in support of non-profit organizations and 
         other public service programs, and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution 
the Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the 
House resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of 
the Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2965) to amend title 18, 
United States Code, to require Federal Prison Industries to compete for 
its contracts minimizing its unfair competition with private sector 
firms and their non-inmate workers and empowering Federal agencies to 
get the best value for taxpayers' dollars, to provide a five-year 
period during which Federal Prison Industries adjusts to obtaining 
inmate work opportunities through other than its mandatory source 
status, to enhance inmate access to remedial and vocational 
opportunities and other rehabilitative opportunities to better prepare 
inmates for a successful return to society, to authorize alternative 
inmate work opportunities in support of non-profit organizations and 
other public service programs, and for other purposes. The first 
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on the Judiciary. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to consider 
as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on the Judiciary now printed in the bill. The committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. 
Notwithstanding clause 11 of rule XVIII, no amendment to the committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those 
printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the order 
printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in 
the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the 
time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall 
not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or 
in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 
amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill 
for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House 
with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a 
separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of 
the Whole to the bill or to the committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
                                                 House Calendar No. 226

109th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 997

                          [Report No. 109-647]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2965) to amend title 18, 
United States Code, to require Federal Prison Industries to compete for 
  its contracts minimizing its unfair competition with private sector 
 firms and their non-inmate workers and empowering Federal agencies to 
   get the best value for taxpayers' dollars, to provide a five-year 
  period during which Federal Prison Industries adjusts to obtaining 
   inmate work opportunities through other than its mandatory source 
      status, to enhance inmate access to remedial and vocational 
opportunities and other rehabilitative opportunities to better prepare 
 inmates for a successful return to society, to authorize alternative 
 inmate work opportunities in support of non-profit organizations and 
         other public service programs, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 12, 2006

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
