
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1096 Referred in Senate (RFS)]


109th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 1096


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 1, 2006

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To establish the Thomas Edison National Historical Park in the State of 
   New Jersey as the successor to the Edison National Historic Site.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Act Commemorating the LITE, or 
Lifetime Innovations of Thomas Edison''.

SEC. 2. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to recognize and pay tribute to Thomas Alva Edison and 
        his innovations; and
            (2) to preserve, protect, restore, and enhance the Edison 
        National Historic Site to ensure public use and enjoyment of 
        the Site as an educational, scientific, and cultural center.

SEC. 3. THOMAS EDISON NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Thomas Edison National 
Historical Park as a unit of the National Park System (hereafter the 
``Historical Park'').
    (b) Boundaries.--The Historical Park shall be comprised of--
            (1) all property owned by the United States in the Edison 
        National Historic Site as well as all property authorized to be 
        acquired by the Secretary of the Interior for inclusion in the 
        Edison National Historic Site before the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, as generally depicted on the map entitled the 
        ``Edison National Historic Site'', numbered 20003B, and dated 
        April 1977; and
            (2) all property authorized to be acquired for inclusion in 
        the Historical Park by this Act or other law enacted after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Map.--The map of the Historical Park shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
National Park Service.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall administer the Historical Park 
in accordance with this Act and with the provisions of law generally 
applicable to units of the National Park System, including the Acts 
entitled ``An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other 
purposes,'' approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.) and ``An Act to provide for the preservation of historic American 
sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities of national significance, 
and for other purposes,'' approved August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et 
seq.).
    (b) Acquisition of Property.--
            (1) Real property.--The Secretary may acquire land or 
        interests in land within the boundaries of the Historical Park, 
        from willing sellers only, by donation, purchase with donated 
        or appropriated funds, or exchange.
            (2) Personal property.--The Secretary may acquire personal 
        property associated with, and appropriate for, interpretation 
        of the Historical Park.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary may consult and enter 
into cooperative agreements with interested entities and individuals to 
provide for the preservation, development, interpretation, and use of 
the Historical Park.
    (d) Repeal of Superseded Law.--Public Law 87-628 (76 Stat. 428), 
regarding the establishment and administration of the Edison National 
Historic Site, is repealed.
    (e) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the ``Edison National 
Historic Site'' shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Thomas 
Edison National Historical Park''.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this Act.

            Passed the House of Representatives February 28, 2006.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
