
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 105 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 105

   To establish a locally oriented commission to assist the city of 
    Berlin, New Hampshire, in identifying and studying its region's 
        historical and cultural assets, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 7, 1997

   Mr. Bass introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                         Committee on Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To establish a locally oriented commission to assist the city of 
    Berlin, New Hampshire, in identifying and studying its region's 
        historical and cultural assets, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Androscoggin River Valley Heritage 
Area Act''.

SEC. 2. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this Act is to establish a locally oriented 
commission to assist the city of Berlin, New Hampshire, in identifying 
and studying its region's historical and cultural assets.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF BERLIN AND THE ANDROSCOGGIN RIVER VALLEY 
              HERITAGE COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the Berlin and the 
Androscoggin River Valley Heritage Commission (in this Act referred to 
as the ``Commission''), which shall consist of 11 members appointed not 
later than 3 months after the date of enactment of this Act, as 
follows:
            (1) 1 member appointed by the Governor of New Hampshire, 
        who shall serve as Chair.
            (2) 1 member appointed by the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives of the State of New Hampshire.
            (3) 1 member appointed by the President of the Senate of 
        the State of New Hampshire.
            (4) 2 members appointed by the Secretary of the Interior 
        from among individuals recommended by State and local cultural 
        or historic preservation organizations.
            (5) 1 member who has experience in the area of historical 
        projects, appointed by the Secretary of the Interior.
            (6) 4 members appointed by the Mayor of the city of Berlin, 
        New Hampshire.
            (7) 1 member appointed by the Member of the House of 
        Representatives representing the Second Congressional District 
        of New Hampshire.
    (b) Voting.--The Commission shall act and advise by affirmative 
vote of a majority of its members.
    (c) Compensation.--Members of the Commission shall receive no pay 
on account of their service on the Commission, but while away from 
their homes or regular places of business in the performance of 
services for the Commission members of the Commission shall be allowed 
travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same 
manner as persons employed intermittently in Government service are 
allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
    (d) Exemption From Charter Renewal Requirements.--Section 14(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to 
the Commission.
    (e) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate upon submission of 
the report under section 4(b).
    (f) Support.--The Director of the National Park Service may provide 
such staff support and technical services as may be necessary to carry 
out the functions of the Commission. The Secretary of the Interior may 
provide the Commission such technical and other assistance as is 
necessary to complete the study described in section 4.
    (g) Open Meetings.--All meetings of the Commission shall be open to 
the public.

SEC. 4. STUDY.

    (a) In General.--Within 1 year after the completion of appointment 
of the members of the Commission, the Commission shall complete a 
comprehensive study of the Androscoggin River Valley's history and 
culture in New Hampshire. The study shall--
            (1) include a catalog of all available historically and 
        culturally significant sites, buildings, and areas in the 
        region;
            (2) examine the feasibility of any Federal or State 
        historic recognition;
            (3) include a set of options for the city of Berlin, New 
        Hampshire, to pursue with respect to heritage-based 
        development, including a list of available Federal, State, and 
        private programs which would further any such efforts; and
            (4) account for the impacts of any heritage-based 
        development on private, State, and municipal property.
    (b) Report.--The Commission shall provide the Congress, the 
Secretary of the Interior, and the State of New Hampshire with a report 
based on the study described in subsection (a).

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    For the purposes of carrying out the functions of the Commission, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $20,000.

SEC. 6. NO REGULATORY AUTHORITY.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to provide the Commission 
with any regulatory authority.
                                 <all>
