
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1468 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1468

       To amend the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation Act of 1996 to modify provisions restricting welfare and 
                      public benefits for aliens.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 29, 1997

  Mr. Levin  introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
   Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on 
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
   each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
       To amend the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation Act of 1996 to modify provisions restricting welfare and 
                      public benefits for aliens.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. MEDICAID EXCEPTION FOR PERMANENT RESIDENT ALIEN CHILDREN.

    Section 402(b)(2) of the Personal Responsibility and Work 
Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1612(b)(2)) is amended 
by adding after subparagraph (D) the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) Medicaid exception for permanent resident 
                alien children.--With respect to eligibility for 
                benefits under paragraph (3)(C) (relating to the 
                medicaid program), an alien who --
                    ``(A) is lawfully admitted for permanent residence 
                under the Immigration and Nationality Act; and
                    ``(B) is under 19 years of age.''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF ELIGIBILITY PERIOD FOR SSI AND MEDICAID FOR 
              REFUGEES AND ASYLEES FROM 5 TO 7 YEARS.

    (a) SSI.--Section 402(a)(2)(A) of the Personal Responsibility and 
Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1612(a)(2)(A)) is 
amended by inserting ``(or with respect to eligibility under paragraph 
(3)(A) 7 years)'' after ``5 years''.
    (b) Medicaid.--Section 402(b)(2)(A) of the Personal Responsibility 
and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 
1612(b)(2)(A)) is amended in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) by inserting 
``(or with respect to eligibility under paragraph (3)(C) 7 years)'' 
after ``5 years'' each place it appears.

SEC. 3. SSI ELIGIBILITY FOR QUALIFIED ALIENS WHO BECAME BLIND OR 
              DISABLED AFTER ADMISSION.

    (a) Eligibility.--Section 402(a)(2) of the Personal Responsibility 
and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1612(a)(2)) 
is amended by adding after subparagraph (D) the following new 
subparagraph:
                    ``(E) Qualified aliens who became blind or disabled 
                after admission.--With respect to eligibility for 
                benefits for the program defined in paragraph (3)(A) 
                (relating to the supplemental security income program), 
                paragraph (1) shall not apply to an alien who is a 
                qualified alien (as defined in section 431) who became 
                blind or disabled after admission to the United 
                States.''.
    (b) Attribution of Income.--Section 421 of the Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 
U.S.C. 1631) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(g) Special Rule for SSI Benefits for Blind and Disabled 
Aliens.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, 
subsection (a) shall not apply to benefits under section 402(a)(3)(A) 
(relating to the supplemental security income program) for an alien who 
became blind or disabled after admission to the United States.''.
    (c) No reimbursement requirement.--Section 423(d) of the Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(12) Benefits under section 402(a)(3)(A) (relating to the 
        supplemental security income program) for an alien who became 
        blind or disabled after admission to the United States.''.

SEC. 4. SSI ELIGIBILITY FOR QUALIFIED ALIENS WHO WERE ADMITTED TO THE 
              UNITED STATES BEFORE ATTAINING 18 YEARS OF AGE AND WERE 
              BLIND OR DISABLED PRIOR TO ADMISSION.

    (a) Eligibility.--Section 402(a)(2) of the Personal Responsibility 
and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1612(a)(2)) 
is amended by adding after subparagraph (E) the following new 
subparagraph:
                    ``(F) Qualified aliens who became blind or disabled 
                after admission.--With respect to eligibility for 
                benefits for the program defined in paragraph (3)(A) 
                (relating to the supplemental security income program), 
                paragraph (1) shall not apply to an alien who is a 
                qualified alien (as defined in section 431), who was 
                admitted to the United States before attaining the age 
of 18 years, and who was blind or disabled (or for whom the onset of 
blindness or disability occurred) prior to admission to the United 
States.''.
    (b) Attribution of Income.--Section 421 of the Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 
U.S.C. 1631) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(g) Special Rule for SSI Benefits for Blind and Disabled 
Aliens.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, 
subsection (a) shall not apply to benefits under section 402(a)(3)(A) 
(relating to the supplemental security income program) for an alien who 
became blind or disabled after admission to the United States or for an 
alien who was admitted to the United States prior to attaining the age 
of 18 years and was blind or disabled (or for whom the onset of 
blindness or disability occurred) prior to admission to the United 
States.''.
    (c) No reimbursement requirement.--Section 423(d) of the Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(12) Benefits under section 402(a)(3)(A) (relating to the 
        supplemental security income program) for an alien who became 
        blind or disabled after admission to the United States or for 
        an alien who was admitted to the United States prior to 
        attaining the age of 18 years and was blind or disabled (or for 
        whom the onset of blindness or disability occurred) prior to 
        admission to the United States.''.

SEC. 5. EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN BLIND AND DISABLED ALIENS TO 5-YEAR 
              INELIGIBILITY OF QUALIFIED ALIENS FOR FEDERAL MEANS-
              TESTED PUBLIC BENEFITS.

    Section 403(b) of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1613(b)) is amended by adding 
after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Exception for blind and disabled aliens.--
                    ``(A) An alien who became blind or disabled after 
                admission to the United States.
                    ``(B) An alien who was admitted to the United 
                States before attaining the age of 18 years and who was 
                blind or disabled (or for whom the onset of blindness 
                or disability occurred) prior to admission to the 
                United States.''.

SEC. 6. SSI ELIGIBILITY FOR PERMANENT RESIDENT ALIENS AT LEAST 76 YEARS 
              OF AGE.

    (a) In General.--Section 402(a)(2) of the Personal Responsibility 
and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1612(a)(2)) 
is further amended by adding after subparagraph (E) the following new 
subparagraph:
                    ``(F) Permanent resident aliens at least 76 years 
                of age.--With respect to eligibility for benefits under 
                paragraph (3)(A) relating to the supplemental security 
                income program), paragraph (1) shall not apply to an 
                alien who
                            ``(i) is lawfully admitted to the United 
                        States for permanent residence under the 
                        Immigration and Nationality Act; and
                            ``(ii) is at least 76 years of age.''.
    (b) No reimbursement requirement.--Section 423(d) of the Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(13) Benefits under section 402(a)(3)(A) (relating to the 
        supplemental security income program) for an alien who is 
        lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence 
        under the Immigration and Nationality Act and is at least 76 
        years of age.''.

SEC. 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
amendments made by this Act shall be effective as if included in the 
enactment of title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work 
Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996.
    (b) Exceptions.--The amendments made by sections 4, 5, and 6 shall 
be effective with respect to benefits payable for months after July 
1997.''.
                                 <all>
