
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 193 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 193

    To amend the National Historic Preservation Act to prohibit the 
inclusion of certain sites on the National Register of Historic Places 
and to prohibit the designation of the Mt. Shasta area in the State of 
California as a historic district, historic site, or national monument 
  under the National Historic Preservation Act or the Antiquities Act.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 7, 1997

  Mr. Herger introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                         Committee on Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To amend the National Historic Preservation Act to prohibit the 
inclusion of certain sites on the National Register of Historic Places 
and to prohibit the designation of the Mt. Shasta area in the State of 
California as a historic district, historic site, or national monument 
  under the National Historic Preservation Act or the Antiquities Act.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ELIGIBILITY FOR INCLUSION ON NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC 
              PLACES.

    Section 101 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
470a) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(k) Special Rule for Inclusion of Certain Natural Landscape 
Features.--(1) After the date of the enactment of this subsection, a 
natural landscape feature described in paragraph (2) shall not be--
            ``(A) eligible for inclusion on the National Register of 
        Historic Places or designation as a National Historic Landmark;
            ``(B) included on the National Register or designated as a 
        National Historic Landmark; or
            ``(C) considered to be a historic or pre-historic property 
        or historic resource for purposes of this Act or any other 
        Federal law.
    ``(2) A natural landscape feature referred to in paragraph (1) is a 
natural landscape feature that is unimproved or unmodified and does 
not--
            ``(A) contain artifacts or other physical evidence of human 
        activity; or
            ``(B) have unique significance in history or pre-history as 
        established by or pursuant to an Act of Congress.
    ``(3) Nothing in this subsection shall invalidate or otherwise 
affect any determination made under this Act or under any other Federal 
law prior to the enactment of this subsection with respect to any 
natural landscape feature.''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION OF DESIGNATION OF MT. SHASTA.

    The Mt. Shasta area in the State of California, as generally 
depicted on the United States Forest Service map entitled ``Geographic 
Limits Multiple Property Form Mt. Shasta Native American Culture and 
History'', numbered 1, and dated April 1993, may not be designated by 
any agency or authority of the United States as a historic district, 
historic site, or national monument under the National Historic 
Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) or the Act of June 8, 1906 
(commonly known as the Antiquities Act of 1906; 16 U.S.C. 431 et seq.). 
Any such designation made before the date of the enactment of this Act 
which is inconsistent with this section shall cease to have any force 
and effect after such date. The map referred to in this section shall 
be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the 
United States Forest Service, Department of Agriculture.
                                 <all>
