
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2407 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2407

  To reauthorize the Office of National Drug Control Policy, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 4, 1997

  Mr. Levin (for himself, Mr. Ramstad, Mr. Barrett of Wisconsin, Mr. 
 Latham, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Blagojevich, and Mr. Cummings) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Government 
Reform and Oversight, and in addition to the Committee on Commerce, for 
a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To reauthorize the Office of National Drug Control Policy, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND REFERENCE.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Office of National 
Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1997''.
    (b) Reference.--Whenever in this Act an amendment or repeal is 
expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other 
provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a section or 
other provision of the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988.

SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY.

    (a) Definitions.--
            (1) Section 1010 (21 U.S.C. 1507) is placed before section 
        1002, is redesignated as section 1001A, and the heading for the 
        section is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1001A. DEFINITIONS.''.

            (2) Section 1001A, as redesignated, is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (8) as 
                paragraphs (7) through (10), respectively;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as 
                paragraphs (3) through (5), respectively;
                    (C) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(1) the term `Office' means the Office of National Drug 
        Control Policy;
            ``(2) the term `drug' has the same meaning as the term 
        controlled substance has in section 102(6) of the Controlled 
        Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(6));
                    (D) in paragraph (3), as redesignated, by inserting 
                ``, including activities to reduce the underage use of 
                tobacco or alcoholic beverages'' after ``demand 
                reduction'';
                    (E) in paragraph (4), as redesignated--
                            (i) by striking ``enforcement'' after 
                        ``any'';
                            (ii) by striking ``supply'' and inserting 
                        ``availability'' after ``reduce the''; and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (B) striking 
                        ``enforcement'' after ``drug'';
                    (F) in paragraph (5), as redesignated--
                            (i) by striking ``demand for'' and 
                        inserting ``use of'' before ``drugs'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``drug abuse'' after 
                        ``including'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``drug abuse'';
                            (iv) in subparagraph (D), by striking 
                        ``and'' at the end;
                            (v) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) drug-free workplace programs; and''; and
                            (vi) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) drug testing;'';
                    (G) by inserting after paragraph (5), as 
                redesignated, the following:
            ``(6) the term `intergovernmental relations' means domestic 
        activities conducted by a National Drug Control Program agency 
        that are intended to reduce the availability and use of drugs, 
        including--
                    ``(A) coordination and facilitation of Federal, 
                State, and local law enforcement drug control efforts;
                    ``(B) promotion of coordination and cooperation 
                among the drug supply reduction and demand reduction 
                agencies of the various States, territories, and units 
                of local government; and
                    ``(C) such other cooperative governmental 
                activities which promote a comprehensive approach to 
                drug control at the National, State, territory, and 
                local levels.''; and
                    (H) in paragraph (10), as redesignated, by--
                            (i) inserting ``and `Strategy''' after 
                        ``National Drug Control Strategy'';
                            (ii) by striking ``means'' and inserting 
                        ``mean''; and
                            (iii) striking ``a'' and inserting ``the'' 
                        after ``means''.
    (b) Establishment of Office of National Drug Control Policy.--
Section 1002 (21 U.S.C. 1501) is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Establishment of Office.--There is established in the 
Executive Office of the President the ``Office of National Drug Control 
Policy'' that--
            ``(1) develops national drug control policy;
            ``(2) coordinates and oversees its implementation;
            ``(3) assesses and certifies the adequacy of national drug 
        control programs and budgets; and
            ``(4) evaluates their effectiveness.'';
            (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) Director and Deputy Directors.--
            ``(1) There shall be at the head of the Office of National 
        Drug Control Policy a Director of National Drug Control Policy.
            ``(2) There shall be in the Office of National Drug Control 
        Policy a Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy, who 
        shall assist the Director in carrying out the responsibilities 
        of the Director under this Act.
            ``(3) There shall be in the Office of National Drug Control 
        Policy a--
                    ``(A) Deputy Director for International Drug 
                Policy, who shall be responsible for the activities 
                described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 
                1001A(4);
                    ``(B) Deputy Director for Demand Reduction Policy, 
                who shall be responsible for the activities described 
                in section 1001A(5); and
                    ``(C) Deputy Director for Intergovernmental 
                Relations, who shall be responsible for the activities 
                described in paragraphs (4)(D) and (6) of section 
                1001A.'';
            (3) by striking subsection (c) and redesignating subsection 
        (d) as subsection (c); and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Office of National Drug Control Policy Gift Fund.--There is 
established in the Treasury a fund for the receipt of gifts, both real 
and personal, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the 
Office under section 1003(c). The Office is authorized to accept, hold, 
administer, and, solely to encourage funding for conferences, solicit 
contributions to the fund. Amounts deposited in the fund are authorized 
to be appropriated, to remain available until expended for authorized 
purposes at the discretion of the Director. The Director is required to 
establish written rules setting forth the criteria to be used in 
determining whether the solicitation and acceptance of real and 
personal gifts pursuant to this subsection would reflect unfavorably 
upon the ability of the Office of National Drug Control Policy or any 
employee to carry out its responsibilities or official duties in a fair 
and objective manner, or would compromise the integrity, or the 
appearance of the integrity, of its programs or of any official 
involved in those programs.''.
    (c) Appointment and Duties of Director and Deputy Directors.--
Section 1003 (21 U.S.C. 1502) is amended--
            (1) by amending the section heading to read as follows:

``SEC. 1003. APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR AND DEPUTY 
              DIRECTORS.'';

            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by inserting ``the Deputy Director'' 
                        after ``The Director,'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``Policy'' after ``Demand 
                        Reduction'';
                            (iii) by striking ``Deputy Director for 
                        Supply Reduction'' and inserting ``Deputy 
                        Director for International Drug Policy''; and
                            (iv) by striking ``Associate Deputy 
                        Director for National Drug Control Policy'' and 
                        inserting ``Deputy Director for 
                        Intergovernmental Relations'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as 
                paragraphs (5) and (6), respectively, and redesignating 
                paragraph (2) as paragraph (4); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
    ``(2) The Deputy Director shall--
            ``(A) carry out the duties and powers prescribed by the 
        Director; and
            ``(B) serve as the Director in the absence of the Director 
        or during any period in which the office of the Director is 
        vacant.
    ``(3) In the absence of the Deputy Director, or if the office of 
the Deputy Director is vacant, the Director shall designate such other 
officer of the Office to serve as the Director if the Director is 
absent or unable to serve.'';
                    (D) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by--
                            (i) inserting ``the Deputy Director,'' 
                        after ``The Director'';
                            (ii) inserting ``Policy'' after ``Demand 
                        Reduction'';
                            (iii) striking ``Deputy Director for Supply 
                        Reduction'' and inserting ``Deputy Director for 
                        International Drug Policy'';
                            (iv) striking ``Associate Deputy Director 
                        for National Drug Control Policy'' and 
                        inserting ``Deputy Director for 
                        Intergovernmental Relations'';
                            (iv) striking ``Director, a Deputy 
                        Director'' and inserting ``Director or a Deputy 
                        Director''; and
                            (v) striking ``, or Associate Director''; 
                        and
                    (E) in paragraph (6) as redesignated:
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                        subparagraph (C);
                            (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following:
    ``(B) Section 5313 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end `Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy'.;
                            (iii) in subparagraph (C), as so 
                        redesignated, by adding ``Policy'' after 
                        ``Deputy Director for Demand Reduction'' and by 
                        striking ``Supply Reduction'' and inserting 
                        ``International Drug Policy'' after ``Deputy 
                        Director for'';
                            (iv) by inserting after subparagraph (C), 
                        as so redesignated, the following:
    ``(D) Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting `Deputy Director for Intergovernmental Relations, Office of 
National Drug Control Policy' after `Administrator, Office of 
Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget';
                            (v) by striking subparagraph C; and
                    (F) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(7) A Federal officer in the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy who is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and 
consent of the Senate, may not participate in Federal election campaign 
activities, except that such official is not prohibited by this 
subsection from making contributions to individual candidates.''.
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``goals,'' 
                before ``objectives'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(2) promulgate the National Drug Control Strategy and 
        annual Strategy Report in accordance with section 1005;'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3) by adding ``goals,'' after 
                ``policies,'';
                    (D) in paragraph (4)(B) by inserting ``goals,'' 
                after ``the policies,'';
                    (E) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``the 
                formulation and implementation of National Drug Control 
                Policy and'' after ``respect to''; and
                    (F) in paragraph (8)--
                            (i) by striking ``second following fiscal 
                        year'' and inserting ``next budget year 
                        scheduled for formulation under the Budget and 
                        Accounting Act of 1921 and each of the 4 
                        subsequent fiscal years,''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``annual''; and
            (4) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``transmit'' and inserting 
                        ``submit'' after ``shall'';
                            (ii) by striking ``and'' the last place it 
                        appears and inserting ``prior to submission'' 
                        after ``President'';
                    (B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
    ``(2)(A) Each Federal Government program manager, agency head, and 
department head with responsibilities under the National Drug Control 
Strategy shall transmit the drug control budget request of the agency 
or department to the Director at the same time as such request is 
submitted to their superiors (and before submission to the Office of 
Management and Budget) in the preparation of the budget of the 
President submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code.
    ``(B) The Director shall request the head of a department or agency 
to include in the department's or agency's budget submission to the 
Office of Management and Budget funding requests for specific 
initiatives that are consistent with the President s priorities for the 
National Drug Control Strategy and certifications made pursuant to 
paragraph (3), and the head of the department or agency shall comply 
with such a request.
    ``(C) The head of each National Drug Control Program agency shall 
ensure timely development and submission to the Director of drug 
control budget requests transmitted pursuant to subsection (c)(2), in 
such format as may be designated by the Director with the concurrence 
of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.''.
                    (C) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``and'' after ``adequate'' the last place it 
                        appears;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking the 
                        period and inserting ``; and'';
                    (D) by redesignating paragraph (4) as subparagraph 
                (D) and striking ``the Director shall'';
                    (E) by striking paragraphs (5), (7), and (8), and 
                redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (4); and
                    (F) in paragraph (4), as redesignated, by adding at 
                the end the following:
    ``(C) The Director shall annually submit to Congress a report 
describing the approval of any reprogramming or transfer of 
appropriated funds pursuant to this section.'';
            (5) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``up to 75 and 
                such additional'' and inserting ``such'';
                    (B) in paragraph (5)--
                            (i) by striking ``accept and use'' and 
                        inserting ``accept, use, and solicit'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``and gifts'' after 
                        ``property''; and
                            (iii) by inserting ``, and the private 
                        sector, as authorized in section 1002(d)'' 
                        before the semicolon;
                    (C) in paragraph (7)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``and'' at the end; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by adding ``and'' 
                        at the end; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) commission special studies and reports by a 
                National Drug Control Program agency, with the 
                concurrence of the head of the affected agency;''; and
                    (D) by striking paragraphs (8) and (9) and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(8) except to the extent that the Director's authority 
        under this paragraph is limited in an annual appropriations 
        Act, and with the concurrence of the head of the affected 
        agency and upon advance notice to the Committees of 
        Appropriations of each House of Congress, transfer funds 
        appropriated to a National Drug Control Program agency program, 
        activity, or function designated by the Director pursuant to 
        subsection (c) to a different National Drug Control Program 
        agency program, activity, or function designated by the 
        Director pursuant to subsection (c) in an amount that does not 
        exceed 2 percent of the amount appropriated to either program, 
        activity, or function;
            ``(9) issue to the head of a National Drug Control Program 
        agency a funds control notice described in subsection (f) to 
        ensure compliance with the National Drug Control Program; and
            ``(10) participate in the drug certification process 
        pursuant to section 490 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        (22 U.S.C. 2291j).'';
            (6) by striking the second subsection designated as 
        subsection (f).
    (d) Coordination With Executive Branch Departments and Agencies.--
Section 1004 (21 U.S.C. 1503) is amended--
            (1) by amending the section heading to read as follows:

``SEC. 1004. COORDINATION WITH EXECUTIVE BRANCH DEPARTMENTS AND 
              AGENCIES IN SUPPLY REDUCTION, DEMAND REDUCTION, AND 
              INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS.'';

            (2) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) by inserting ``cooperate with and'' before 
                ``provide''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``and the annual report to 
                Congress'' before the period.
    (e) Development and Submission of National Drug Control Strategy.--
Section 1005 (21 U.S.C. 1504) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1005. DEVELOPMENT, SUBMISSION, IMPLEMENTATION, AND ASSESSMENT OF 
              NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL STRATEGY.

    ``(a) Timing, Content, and Process for Development and Submission 
of the National Drug Control Strategy.--
            ``(1) Not later than February 1, 1997, the President shall 
        submit to the Congress a National Drug Control Strategy, which 
shall set forth a comprehensive 10-year plan for reducing drug abuse 
and its consequences in the United States by limiting the availability 
of and reducing the demand for illegal drugs. Any part of such strategy 
that involves information properly classified under criteria 
established by an Executive order shall be presented to Congress 
separately from the rest of the strategy.
            ``(2) The National Drug Control Strategy submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    ``(A) comprehensive, research-based, long-range 
                goals for reducing drug abuse and the consequences of 
                drug abuse in the United States;
                    ``(B) measurable objectives to accomplish long-term 
                goals;
                    ``(C) 5-year projections for program and budget 
                priorities; and
                    ``(D) a review of State, local, and private sector 
                drug control activities to ensure that the United 
                States pursues well-coordinated and effective drug 
                control at all levels of government.
            ``(3) Consultations.--
                    ``(A) In developing and effectively implementing 
                the National Drug Control Strategy, the Director shall 
                consult with--
                            ``(i) the heads of the National Drug 
                        Control Program agencies;
                            ``(ii) Congress;
                            ``(iii) State and local officials;
                            ``(iv) private citizens and organizations 
                        with experience and expertise in demand 
                        reduction; and
                            ``(v) private citizens and organizations 
                        with experience and expertise in supply 
                        reduction;
                    ``(B) The National Drug Control Strategy and each 
                annual Strategy Report shall indicate the persons 
                consulted under this paragraph.
    ``(b) Annual Strategy Report.--Not later than February 1, 1998, and 
on February 1 of each year thereafter, the President shall submit to 
Congress an annual report on the progress in implementing the Strategy 
under subsection (a), which shall include--
            ``(1) an assessment of the Federal effectiveness in 
        achieving the Strategy goals and objectives using the 
        performance measurement system described in subsection (c);
            ``(2) any modifications of the Strategy;
            ``(3) an assessment of how the budget proposal submitted 
        under section 1003(c) (21 U.S.C. 1502(c)) is intended to 
        implement the strategy and whether the funding levels contained 
        in such proposal are sufficient to implement such strategy;
            ``(4) an assessment of current drug use and availability, 
        impact of drug use, and treatment availability. This assessment 
        will include--
                    ``(A) estimates of drug prevalence and frequency of 
                use as measured by national, State, and local surveys 
                of illicit drug use and by other special studies of--
                            ``(i) casual and chronic drug use;
                            ``(ii) high-risk populations, including 
                        school dropouts, the homeless and transient, 
                        arrestees, parolees, probationers, and juvenile 
                        delinquents; and
                            ``(iii) drug use in the workplace and the 
                        productivity lost by such use;
                    ``(B) an assessment of the reduction of drug 
                availability against an ascertained baseline, as 
                measured by--
                            ``(i) the quantities of cocaine, heroin, 
                        marijuana, methamphetamine, and other drugs 
                        available for consumption in the United States;
                            ``(ii) the amount of marijuana, cocaine, 
                        and heroin entering the United States;
                            ``(iii) the number of hectares of 
                        marijuana, poppy, and coca cultivated and 
                        destroyed;
                            ``(iv) the number of metric tons of 
                        marijuana, heroin, and cocaine seized;
                            ``(v) the number of cocaine and 
                        methamphetamine processing laboratories 
                        destroyed;
                            ``(vi) changes in the price and purity of 
                        heroin and cocaine;
                            ``(vii) the amount and type of controlled 
                        substances diverted from legitimate retail and 
                        wholesale sources; and
                            ``(viii) the effectiveness of Federal 
                        technology programs at improving drug detection 
                        capabilities in interdiction, and at United 
                        States ports of entry;
                    ``(C) an assessment of the reduction of the 
                consequences of drug use and availability, which shall 
                include estimation of--
                            ``(i) burdens drug users placed on hospital 
                        emergency departments in the United States, 
                        such as the quantity of drug-related services 
                        provided;
                            ``(ii) the annual national health care 
                        costs of drug use, including costs associated 
                        with people becoming infected with the human 
                        immuno-deficiency virus and other infectious 
                        diseases as a result of drug use;
                            ``(iii) the extent of drug-related crime 
                        and criminal activity; and
                            ``(iv) the contribution of drugs to the 
                        underground economy, as measured by the retail 
                        value of drugs sold in the United States;
                    ``(D) a determination of the status of drug 
                treatment in the United States, by assessing--
                            ``(i) public and private treatment capacity 
                        within each State, including information on the 
                        treatment capacity available in relation to the 
                        capacity actually used;
                            ``(ii) the extent, within each State, to 
                        which treatment is available;
                            ``(iii) the number of drug users the 
                        Director estimates could benefit from 
                        treatment; and
                            ``(iv) the specific factors that restrict 
                        the availability of treatment services to those 
                        seeking it and proposed administrative or 
                        legislative remedies to make treatment 
                        available to those individuals;
                    ``(E) a review of the research agenda of the 
                Counter-Drug Technology Assessment Center to reduce the 
                availability and abuse of drugs;
            ``(5) an assessment of private sector initiatives and 
        cooperative efforts between the Federal Government and State 
        and local governments for drug control.
    ``(c) Performance Measurement System.--The Director shall include 
with the annual Strategy Report a description of the national drug 
control performance measurement system, designed in consultation with 
affected National Drug Control Program agencies, that--
            ``(1) develops performance objectives, measures, and 
        targets for each National Drug Control Strategy goal and 
        objective;
            ``(2) revises performance objectives, targets, and measures 
        to conform with National Drug Control Program Agency budgets;
            ``(3) identifies major programs and activities of the 
        National Drug Control Program Agencies that support the goals 
        and objectives of the National Drug Control Strategy;
            ``(4) evaluates implementation of major program activities 
        supporting the National Drug Control Strategy developed under 
        this section;
            ``(5) monitors consistency between the drug-related goals 
        and objectives of the National Drug Control Program agencies 
        and ensures that drug control agency goals and budgets support 
        and are fully consistent with the National Drug Control 
        Strategy; and
            ``(6) coordinates the development and implementation of 
        national drug control data collection and reporting systems to 
        support policy formulation and performance measurement, 
        including--
                    ``(A) an assessment of the quality of current drug 
                use measurement instruments and techniques to measure 
                supply reduction and demand reduction activities;
                    ``(B) an assessment of the adequacy of the coverage 
                of existing national drug use measurement instruments 
                and techniques to measure the casual drug user 
                population and groups that are at risk for drug use; 
                and
                    ``(C) an assessment of the actions the Director 
                shall take to correct any deficiencies and limitations 
                identified pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
                subsection (b)(4).''.
    (f) High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program.--The National 
Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988 is amended by inserting after section 
1005 the following:

``SEC. 1005A. HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS PROGRAM.

    ``(a) There is established in the Office a program to be known as 
the `High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program'.
    ``(b) The Director, upon consultation with the Attorney General, 
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, heads of the National Drug Control Program agencies, and the 
Governors of each State, may designate any specified area of the United 
States as a high intensity drug trafficking area. After making such a 
designation and in order to provide Federal assistance to the area so 
designated, the Director may--
            ``(1) obligate such sums as appropriated for the High 
        Intensity Drug Trafficking Area Program;
            ``(2) direct the temporary reassignment of Federal 
        personnel to such area, subject to the approval of the 
        Secretary of the department or head of the agency that employs 
        such personnel;
            ``(3) take any other action authorized under section 1003 
        to provide increased Federal assistance to such areas;
            ``(4) coordinate actions under this paragraph with State 
        and local officials; and
            ``(5) in consultation with affected National Drug Control 
        Policy agencies, promulgate such regulations for the effective 
        implementation of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas 
        Program.
    ``(c) When considering the designation of an area underthis section 
as a high intensity drug trafficking area, the Director shall consider, 
in addition to such other criteria as the Director considers to be 
appropriate, the extent to which--
            ``(1) the area is a center of illegal drug production, 
        manufacturing, importation, or distribution;
            ``(2) State and local law enforcement agencies have 
        committed resources to respond to the drug trafficking problem 
        in the area, thereby indicating a determination to respond 
        aggressively to the problem;
            ``(3) State and local demand reduction agencies have 
        committed resources to respond to drug abuse in the area, 
        thereby indicating a determination to respond to the problem;
            ``(4) drug-related activities in the area are having a 
        harmful impact in other areas of the country; and
            ``(5) a significant increase in allocation of Federal 
        resources is necessary to respond adequately to drug-related 
        activities in the area.''.
    (g) Counter-Drug Technology Assessment Center.--Section 1008 (21 
U.S.C. 1505) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1008. COUNTER-DRUG TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT CENTER.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established within the Office the 
Counter-Drug Technology Assessment Center (in this section referred to 
as the `Center'). The Center shall operate under the authority of the 
Director of National Drug Control Policy and shall serve as the central 
counter-drug technology research and development organization of the 
United States Government.
    ``(b) Director of Technology.--There shall be at the head of the 
Center the Director of Technology, who shall be appointed by the 
Director of National Drug Control Policy from among individuals 
qualified and distinguished in the area of science, medicine, 
engineering, or technology.
    ``(c) Additional Responsibilities of the Director of National Drug 
Control Policy.--
            ``(1) The Director, acting through the Director of 
        Technology shall--
                    ``(A) identify and define the short-, medium-, and 
                long-term scientific and technological needs of 
                Federal, State, and local drug supply reduction 
                agencies, including--
                            ``(i) advanced surveillance, tracking, and 
                        radar imaging;
                            ``(ii) electronic support measures;
                            ``(iii) communications;
                            ``(iv) data fusion, advanced computer 
                        systems, and artificial intelligence; and
                            ``(v) chemical, biological, radiological 
                        (including neutron, electron, and graviton), 
                        and other means of detection;
                    ``(B) identify demand reduction basic and applied 
                research needs and initiatives, in consultation with 
                affected National Drug Control Program agencies, 
                including--
                            ``(i) improving treatment through 
                        neuroscientific advances;
                            ``(ii) improving the transfer of biomedical 
                        research to the clinical setting, and
                            ``(iii) developing new advances in drug 
                        abuse prevention programming;
                            ``(iv) in consultation with the National 
                        Institute on Drug Abuse, and through 
                        interagency agreements or grants, examine 
                        addiction and rehabilitation research and the 
                        application of technology to expanding the 
                        effectiveness or availability of drug 
                        treatment;
                    ``(C) make a priority ranking of such needs 
                identified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) according to 
                fiscal and technological feasibility, as part of a 
                National Counter-Drug Enforcement Research and 
                Development Program;
                    ``(D) oversee and coordinate counter-drug 
                technology initiatives with related activities of other 
                Federal civilian and military departments;
                    ``(E) provide support to the development and 
                implementation of the national drug control performance 
                measurement system; and
                    ``(F) pursuant to the authority of the Director of 
                National Drug Control Policy under section 1003 (21 
                U.S.C. 1502), submit requests to Congress for the 
                reprogramming or transfer of funds appropriated for 
                counter-drug technology research and development.
            ``(2) The authority granted to the Director under this 
        section shall not extend to the award of contracts, management 
        of individual projects, or other operational activities.
    ``(d) Assistance and Support to Office of National Drug Control 
Policy.--The Department of Defense and the Department of Health and 
Human Services shall, to the fullest extent possible, render assistance 
and support to the Office and its Director, in the conduct of counter-
drug technology assessment.''.
    (h) Termination of Office of National Drug Control Policy.--Section 
1009 (42 U.S.C. 1506) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1009. TERMINATION OF OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY.

    ``Effective on September 30, 2009, this subtitle and the amendments 
made by this subtitle are repealed.''.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 1011 (21 U.S.C. 1508) 
is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1011. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
subtitle, to remain available until expended, such sums as may be 
necessary for each of the fiscal years 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 
2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009.''.
    (j) Establishment of Special Forfeiture Fund.--Section 6073 of the 
Asset Forfeiture Amendments Act of 1988 (21 U.S.C. 1509) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b),
                    (A) by striking ``section 524(c)(9)'' and inserting 
                ``section 524(c)(8)'';
                    (B) by striking ``section 9307(g)'' and inserting 
                ``section 9703(g)''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``strategy'' and 
        inserting ``Strategy''.
                                 <all>
