
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2617 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2617

 For the relief of Rosalba Colunga de Medina, Claudia Janet Alexandru 
                  Medina, and Jose Armando Medina, Jr.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 7, 1997

 Mr. Clement introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 For the relief of Rosalba Colunga de Medina, Claudia Janet Alexandru 
                  Medina, and Jose Armando Medina, Jr.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR ROSALBA COLUNGA DE MEDINA, 
              CLAUDIA JANET ALEXANDRU MEDINA, AND JOSE ARMANDO MEDINA, 
              JR.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Rosalba Colunga de Medina, 
Claudia Janet Alexandru Medina, and Jose Armando Medina, Jr., shall 
each be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of 
status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence 
upon filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under 
section 204 of such Act or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent 
resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Rosalba Colunga de Medina, Claudia 
Janet Alexandru Medina, and Jose Armando Medina, Jr., enters the United 
States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), he or 
she shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and 
shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status 
under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed 
with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Rosalba Colunga de Medina, 
Claudia Janet Alexandru Medina, and Jose Armando Medina, Jr., the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 3, 
during the current or next following fiscal year, the total number of 
immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of 
the aliens' birth under section 203(a) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the country of the aliens' birth 
under section 202(e) of such Act.
                                 <all>
