
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2700 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2700

To direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey certain lands to the 
   District of Columbia for use for single-family homes for low and 
               moderate income individuals and families.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 22, 1997

  Ms. Norton introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                         Committee on Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey certain lands to the 
   District of Columbia for use for single-family homes for low and 
               moderate income individuals and families.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Oxon Run Parkway Land Transfer and 
Restoration Act''.



SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    For the purposes of this Act:
            (1) The term ``ancillary facilities'' means structures that 
        enhance and contribute to the pleasure and enjoyment of 
        occupants and are compatible with the development of a 
        community of single family homes for low and moderate income 
        families.
            (2) The term ``District'' means the District of Columbia.
            (3) The term ``initial sale'' means the first sale of a 
        home constructed by the District or any third party designated 
        by the District to carry out the purposes of this Act to a 
        person or persons qualified to purchase a home pursuant to this 
        Act.
            (4) The term ``low and moderate income'' means having an 
        annual income that is less than or equal to the median annual 
        income in the District of Columbia.
            (5) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.

SEC. 3. CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY TO DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR LOW AND 
              MODERATE INCOME HOUSING USE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, convey, not later than six 
months after the date of enactment of this Act, to the District of 
Columbia by quitclaim deed without consideration, all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the property described in 
section 4 of this Act, subject to the condition that it be developed 
into a community of single-family houses with ancillary facilities for 
low and moderate income individuals and families and for recreational 
facilities.
    (b) Condition of Property.--No later than the time of the 
conveyance, the Secretary shall disclose to the District all existing 
information of the Secretary regarding the condition of the property 
and its former uses. Nothing in this subsection is to be construed to 
authorize the Secretary to conduct additional studies or assessments, 
or develop additional information on the property.

SEC. 4. PROPERTY DESCRIBED.

    The property referred to in section 3 is a portion of the land in 
the District of Columbia that was formerly known as United States 
Reservation 501, and as depicted on NCR map numbered 69-501-87, and is 
bordered--
            (1) on the northeast, by south Capital Street and privately 
        owned property;
            (2) on the west, by a line located approximately 20 feet 
        east of the eastern edge of Oxon Run Parkway; and
            (3) on the southeast, by the boundary between Maryland and 
        the District of Columbia;
consisting of approximately 25 acres.

SEC. 5. EFFECT OF PROPERTY CONVEYANCE.

    Upon the conveyance of the property to the District pursuant to 
this Act--
            (1) the transfer of jurisdiction from the National Park 
        Service to the District dated August 2, 1971 shall become null 
        and void and of no further force and effect;
            (2) the property shall no longer be considered to be part 
        of Oxon Run Park and shall not be considered to be within the 
        park system of the District;
            (3) the property shall cease to be a reservation, park, or 
        public grounds of the United States for the purposes of the Act 
        of August 24, 1912 (ch. 355, 37 Stat. 444; 40 U.S.C. 68; 8-128 
        D.C. Code); and
            (4) liability for the existing condition of the property 
        and for any necessary remediation and restoration actions lies 
        with the District, notwithstanding applicable law.

SEC. 6. INSPECTION AND TREATMENT OF CONVEYED PROPERTY.

    Following conveyance of the property as provided for in section 
3(a) of this Act, the District shall take all actions necessary to 
ensure that the property is suitable for use pursuant to this Act. The 
costs of all such inspections, analyses, environmental restoration, 
waste management, and environmental compliance activities are to be 
borne by the District.

SEC. 7. RECONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY TO THE UNITED STATES BY THE DISTRICT.

    Within 6 months of the conveyance described in section 3(a) of this 
Act, the District may reconvey to the United States without 
consideration, all right, title and interest in and to the property 
described in section 4, if it determines pursuant to section 6 of this 
Act, that it cannot use the property for the purposes of this Act. The 
costs incurred for such reconveyance shall be borne by the District. 
Any and all claims and judgments arising during the period prior to 
such reconveyance shall remain the responsibility of the District. This 
reconveyance shall not be considered an admission of liability for any 
purpose and does not give rise to a civil action for judicial review 
until any and all remediation and restoration actions are completed.

SEC. 8. REVERSIONARY INTEREST.

    (a) Use of Property.--The conveyance under section 3(a) shall be 
subject to the condition that the property only be developed into a 
community of single-family houses with ancillary facilities for low and 
moderate income individuals and families, and recreational facilities. 
Title in the property conveyed under section 1(a), or a portion 
thereof, shall revert to the United States 90 days after the date on 
which the Secretary provides written notice and opportunity to comment 
to the owner and to the Mayor of the District of Columbia that one of 
the following has occurred--
            (1) Failure to commence construction of single family 
        houses and ancillary facilities thereto, or recreational 
        facilities, within four years after title has been conveyed 
        pursuant to section 3(a).
            (2) Failure to complete construction of single family 
        houses and ancillary facilities thereto, or recreational 
        facilities, within 3 years after commencement of construction.
            (3) Placement of improvements other than those authorized 
        by this Act.
            (4) The initial sale of a house constructed pursuant to 
        this Act to a person or persons whose income collectively 
        exceed the median annual income in the District of Columbia at 
        the time of the initial sale.
The Secretary shall determine whether a reversion is for all of the 
property conveyed in section 3(a) of this Act, or for a portion 
thereof. Any such reversion shall not include any portion of the 
property on which single family houses and ancillary facilities for low 
and moderate income individuals and families have been constructed and 
are ready for sale or have been previously subject to an initial sale 
to a low or moderate income individual or family. The Secretary shall 
consult with the Mayor of the District of Columbia prior to any 
determination that any property conveyed to the District under this Act 
or a portion thereof is subject to reversion to the United States.
    (b) Extension.--The periods referred to in this section shall be 
extended during--
            (1) the pendency of any lawsuit which seeks to enjoin the 
        use of this property pursuant to this Act and any actions 
        related thereto; or
            (2) the time in which the District is performing any 
        environmental restoration, waste management, and environmental 
        compliance activities that under applicable law are required 
        prior to the development of the property pursuant to this Act.
    (c) Effect of Reversion.--Following any reversion to the United 
States, any and all claims and judgments arising during the period 
prior to such reversion shall remain the responsibility of the owner of 
the reverting portion of the property immediately prior to reversion, 
and any reversion shall extinguish any and all leases, rights or 
privileges to use the portion of the property which reverts.

SEC. 9. SAVINGS PROVISIONS.

    No provision of this Act shall be construed--
            (1) as an express or implied endorsement or approval by the 
        Congress of any development or operation of this property;
            (2) to exempt the District, after the conveyance, from 
        compliance with the laws of the United States and the District, 
        including laws relating to the environment, health, and safety 
        in the development or operation of this property;
            (3) to prevent additional conditions on the development or 
        operation of the property; or
            (4) to exempt the United States from compliance with 
        applicable laws relating to the environment, health, and 
        safety, except for with regard to this Act.
                                 <all>
