
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3022 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3022

To amend title 10, United States Code, to authorize the settlement and 
  payment of claims against the United States for injury and death of 
    members of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian 
employees arising from incidents in which claims are settled for death 
                    or injury of foreign nationals.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            November 9, 1997

Mr. Watt of North Carolina (for himself, Mr. Conyers, and Mr. Collins) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                             the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title 10, United States Code, to authorize the settlement and 
  payment of claims against the United States for injury and death of 
    members of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian 
employees arising from incidents in which claims are settled for death 
                    or injury of foreign nationals.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SETTLEMENT AND PAYMENT OF CLAIMS FOR INJURY AND DEATH OF 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES IN INCIDENTS IN WHICH CLAIMS ARE 
              SETTLED ARISING FROM DEATH OR INJURY OF FOREIGN 
              NATIONALS.

    (a) Authority To Settle and Pay Claims.--Section 2734 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(i)(1) In any case in which a claim against the United States for 
personal injury to, or death of, an inhabitant of a foreign country is 
settled and paid under subsection (a), a commission appointed under 
that subsection may settle and pay in a like manner a claim against the 
United States arising from the same incident for personal injury to, or 
death of, a member of the armed forces or civilian officer or employee 
of the Department of Defense. Any such settlement shall be in addition 
to any other benefit which may be paid by reason of such injury or 
death.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (i) of section 2734 of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with 
respect to claims accruing on or after April 14, 1994. In the case of 
such a claim accruing before the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
period specified in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of that section for 
the time within which a claim must be presented shall be considered to 
be the one-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (c) Report.--Not later than six months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to 
Congress a report on the payment of claims authorized by subsection (i) 
of section 2734 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection 
(a).
                                 <all>
