
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3095 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3095

To establish the Bipartisan Panel to Design Long-Range Social Security 
                                Reform.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 27, 1998

Mr. Archer (for himself and Mr. Kasich) introduced the following bill; 
         which was referred to the Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish the Bipartisan Panel to Design Long-Range Social Security 
                                Reform.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Bipartisan Panel to Design Long-
Range Social Security Reform Act of 1998''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF PANEL.

    There is established a panel to be known as the Bipartisan Panel to 
Design Long-Range Social Security Reform (in this Act referred to as 
the ``Panel'').

SEC. 3. DUTIES OF PANEL.

      The Panel shall design a single set of legislative and 
administrative recommendations for long-range reforms for restoring the 
solvency of the social security system and maintaining retirement 
income security in the United States.

SEC. 4. MEMBERSHIP OF THE PANEL.

    (a) Number and Appointment.--The Panel shall be composed of eight 
members, of whom--
            (1) two shall be appointed by the President,
            (2) four shall be appointed jointly by the Speaker of the 
        House of Representatives, the Minority Leader of the House of 
        Representatives, the Majority Leader of the Senate, and the 
        Minority Leader of the Senate,
            (3) one shall be appointed jointly by the Chairman of the 
        Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and 
        the Chairman of the Committee on Finance of the Senate, and
            (4) one shall be appointed jointly by the Ranking Minority 
        Member of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
        Representatives and the Ranking Minority Member of the 
        Committee on Finance of the Senate.
The members of the Panel shall consist of individuals who are of 
recognized standing and distinction, who can represent the multiple 
generations who have a stake in the viability of the system, and who 
possess the demonstrated capacity to discharge the duties imposed on 
the Panel. At least one of the members shall be appointed from 
individuals representing the interests of employees, and at least one 
of the members shall be appointed from individuals representing the 
interests of employers.
    (b) Co-Chairs.--The officials referred to in paragraphs (1) through 
(4) of subsection (a) shall designate two of the members of the Panel 
to serve as Co-Chairs of the Panel, who shall jointly chair the Panel, 
determine its duties, and supervise its staff.
    (c) Terms of Appointment.--The members of the Panel shall serve for 
the life of the Panel.
    (d) Vacancies.--A vacancy in the Panel shall not affect the power 
of the remaining members to execute the duties of the Panel, but any 
such vacancy shall be filled in the same manner in which the original 
appointment was made.

SEC. 5. PROCEDURES.

    (a) Meetings.--The Panel shall meet at the call of its Co-Chairs or 
a majority of its members.
    (b) Quorum.--A quorum shall consist of 4 members of the Panel, 
except that a lesser number may conduct a hearing under subsection (c).
    (c) Hearings and Other Activities.--For the purpose of carrying out 
its duties, the Panel may hold such hearings and undertake such other 
activities as the Panel determines to be necessary to carry out its 
duties. Meetings held in order to conduct fact finding, as determined 
by the Co-Chairs, shall be open to the public. Meetings held in order 
to develop policy, as determined by the Co-Chairs, may be held in 
executive session, notwithstanding the Federal Advisory Committee Act 
and any other provision of law.
    (d) Obtaining Information.--Upon request of the Panel, the 
Commissioner of Social Security and the head of any other agency or 
instrumentality of the Federal Government shall furnish information 
deemed necessary by the Panel to enable it to carry out its duties.

SEC. 6. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Compensation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), members of 
the Panel shall receive no additional pay, allowances, or benefits by 
reason of their service on the Panel.
    (b) Travel Expenses and Per Diem.--Each member of the Panel who is 
not a present Member of the Congress and who is not otherwise an 
officer or employee of the Federal Government shall receive travel 
expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence in accordance with 
sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
    (c) Staff and Support Services.--
            (1) Staff director.--
                    (A) Appointment.--The Panel shall appoint a staff 
                director of the Panel.
                    (B) Compensation.--The staff director shall be paid 
                at a rate not to exceed the rate established for level 
                V of the Executive Schedule.
            (2) Staff.--The Panel shall appoint such additional 
        personnel as the Panel determines to be necessary.
            (3) Applicability of civil service laws.--The staff 
        director and other members of the staff of the Panel shall be 
        appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5, United 
        States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, 
        and shall be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 
        51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to 
        classification and General Schedule pay rates.
            (4) Experts and consultants.--With the approval of the 
        Panel, the staff director may procure temporary and 
        intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United 
        States Code.
    (d) Contract Authority.--The Panel may contract with and compensate 
government and private agencies or persons for items and services, 
without regard to section 3709 of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 5).
    (e) Physical Facilities.--The Architect of the Capitol, in 
consultation with the appropriate entities in the legislative branch, 
shall locate and provide suitable office space for the operation of the 
Panel on a reimbursable basis. The facilities shall serve as the 
headquarters of the Panel and shall include all necessary equipment and 
incidentals required for the proper functioning of the Panel.
    (f) Detail of Federal Employees.--Upon the request of the Panel, 
the head of any Federal agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any 
of the personnel of such agency to the Panel to assist the Panel in 
carrying out its duties.
    (g) Use of Mails.--The Panel may use the United States mails in the 
same manner and under the same conditions as Federal agencies and 
shall, for purposes of the frank, be considered a commission of 
Congress as described in section 3215 of title 39, United States Code.
    (h) Administrative Support Services.--Upon the request of the 
Panel, the Architect of the Capitol shall provide to the Panel on a 
reimbursable basis such administrative support services as the Panel 
may request.
    (i) Printing.--For purposes of costs relating to printing and 
binding, including the cost of personnel detailed from the Government 
Printing Office, the Panel shall be deemed to be a committee of the 
Congress.

SEC. 7. REPORT.

    Not later than February 1, 1999, the Panel shall submit to the 
President, the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report 
which shall contain a detailed statement of the findings and 
conclusions of the Panel, including the set of recommendations required 
under section 3. The report shall include only those recommendations of 
the Panel that receive the approval of at least 6 members of the Panel, 
including both Co-Chairs.

SEC. 8. TERMINATION.

    The Panel shall terminate March 31, 1999.

SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Panel, from the 
Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund, such sums as are 
necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act, but not to exceed 
$2,000,000.
                                 <all>
