
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3383 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3383

To amend the Weir Farm National Historic Site Establishment Act of 1990 
  to authorize the limited acquisition of additional acreage for the 
 historic site to permit the development of visitor and administrative 
facilities and to authorize the appropriation of additional amounts for 
             the acquisition of real and personal property.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 5, 1998

  Mr. Maloney of Connecticut introduced the following bill; which was 
                 referred to the Committee on Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Weir Farm National Historic Site Establishment Act of 1990 
  to authorize the limited acquisition of additional acreage for the 
 historic site to permit the development of visitor and administrative 
facilities and to authorize the appropriation of additional amounts for 
             the acquisition of real and personal property.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. WEIR FARM NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE, CONNECTICUT.

    (a) Acquisition of Land for Visitor and Administrative 
Facilities.--Section 4 of the Weir Farm National Historic Site 
Establishment Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-485; 104 Stat. 1171; 16 
U.S.C. 461 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(d) Acquisition of Land for Visitor and Administrative 
Facilities; Limitations.--(1) In order to preserve and maintain the 
historic setting and character of the historic site, the Secretary may 
acquire not more than 15 additional acres for the development of 
visitor and administrative facilities for the historic site. The 
property acquired under the authority of this paragraph may be 
contiguous or in close proximity to the parcels described in subsection 
(b). The acquired property shall be included within the boundaries of 
the historic site and shall be operated and maintained as part of the 
historic site.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall keep development of the property acquired 
under paragraph (1) to a minimum so that the character of the acquired 
property is similar to the natural and undeveloped landscape of the 
parcels described in subsection (b). Any parking area for the resulting 
visitor and administrative facilities shall not exceed 30 spaces. Items 
sold in the visitor facilities shall be limited to educational and 
interpretive materials related to the purpose of the historic site and 
shall not include food.
    ``(3) Prior to and as a prerequisite to any development of visitor 
and administrative facilities on the property acquired under paragraph 
(1), the Secretary shall enter into one or more agreements with the 
appropriate zoning authority of the town of Ridgefield and the town of 
Wilton for the purposes of--
            ``(A) developing the parking, visitor, and administrative 
        facilities for the historic site; and
            ``(B) managing bus traffic to the historic site, which will 
        include limiting parking for large tour buses to an offsite 
        location.''.
    (b) Increase in Maximum Acquisition Authority.--Section 7 of such 
Act (104 Stat. 1173) is amended by striking ``$1,500,000'' and 
inserting ``$4,000,000''.
                                 <all>
