
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1398 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1398

To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide for the establishment 
  of a program for research and training with respect to Parkinson's 
                                disease.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 17, 1997

  Mr. Smith of New Jersey (for himself, Mr. Saxton, Mr. Hayworth, Mr. 
 Cunningham, Mr. Stearns, Mr. Rahall, Mr. Weldon of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
    Walsh, Mr. King, Mr. LaFalce, Mr. Bunning, Mr. Bob Schaffer of 
  Colorado, and Mr. Norwood) introduced the following bill; which was 
                 referred to the Committee on Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide for the establishment 
  of a program for research and training with respect to Parkinson's 
                                disease.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Parkinson's Research Act of 1997''.

SEC. 2. FINDING AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that to take full advantage of the 
tremendous potential for finding a cure or effective treatment for 
Parkinson's disease, the Federal investment in Parkinson's must be 
expanded, as well as the coordination strengthened among the National 
Institutes of Health research institutes.
    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this Act to provide for the 
expansion and coordination of research regarding Parkinson's, and to 
improve care and assistance for afflicted individuals and their family 
caregivers.

SEC. 3. PARKINSON'S RESEARCH.

    Part B of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 284 
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

                         ``parkinson's disease

    ``Sec. 409B. (a) In General.--The Director of NIH shall establish a 
program for the conduct and support of research and training with 
respect to Parkinson's disease (subject to the extent of amounts 
appropriated under subsection (e)).
    ``(b) Inter-Institute Coordination.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director of NIH shall provide for 
        the coordination of the program established under subsection 
        (a) among all of the national research institutes conducting 
        Parkinson's research.
            ``(2) Conference.--Coordination under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the convening of a research planning conference not 
        less frequently than once every 2 years. Each such conference 
        shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Appropriations and 
        the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Commerce 
        of the House of Representatives a report concerning the 
        conference.
    ``(c) Morris K. Udall Research Centers.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director of NIH shall award Core 
        Center Grants to encourage the development of innovative 
        multidisciplinary research and provide training concerning 
        Parkinson's. The Director shall award not more than 10 Core 
        Center Grants and designate each center funded under such 
        grants as a Morris K. Udall Center for Research on Parkinson's 
        Disease.
            ``(2) Requirements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--With respect to Parkinson's, 
                each center assisted under this subsection shall--
                            ``(i) use the facilities of a single 
                        institution or a consortium of cooperating 
                        institutions, and meet such qualifications as 
                        may be prescribed by the Director of the NIH; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) conduct basic and clinical research.
                    ``(B) Discretionary requirements.--With respect to 
                Parkinson's, each center assisted under this subsection 
                may--
                            ``(i) conduct training programs for 
                        scientists and health professionals;
                            ``(ii) conduct programs to provide 
                        information and continuing education to health 
                        professionals;
                            ``(iii) conduct programs for the 
                        dissemination of information to the public;
                            ``(iv) separately or in collaboration with 
                        other centers, establish a nationwide data 
                        system derived from patient populations with 
                        Parkinson's, and where possible, comparing 
                        relevant data involving general populations;
                            ``(v) separately or in collaboration with 
                        other centers, establish a Parkinson's Disease 
                        Information Clearinghouse to facilitate and 
                        enhance knowledge and understanding of 
                        Parkinson's disease; and
                            ``(vi) separately or in collaboration with 
                        other centers, establish a national education 
                        program that fosters a national focus on 
                        Parkinson's and the care of those with 
                        Parkinson's.
            ``(3) Stipends regarding training programs.--A center may 
        use funds provided under paragraph (1) to provide stipends for 
        scientists and health professionals enrolled in training 
        programs under paragraph (2)(B).
            ``(4) Duration of support.--Support of a center under this 
        subsection may be for a period not exceeding five years. Such 
        period may be extended by the Director of NIH for one or more 
        additional periods of not more than five years if the 
        operations of such center have been reviewed by an appropriate 
        technical and scientific peer review group established by the 
        Director and if such group has recommended to the Director that 
        such period should be extended.
    ``(d) Morris K. Udall Awards for Excellence in Parkinson's Disease 
Research.--The Director of NIH shall establish a grant program to 
support investigators with a proven record of excellence and innovation 
in Parkinson's research and who demonstrate potential for significant 
future breakthroughs in the understanding of the pathogensis, 
diagnosis, and treatment of Parkinson's. Grants under this subsection 
shall be available for a period of not to exceed 5 years.
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 
for fiscal year 1998, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the 
fiscal years 1999 and 2000.
    ``(f) Limitation on Use of Certain Funds of Public Health 
Service.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
amounts made available under this Act may be expended for any research 
that uses human fetal tissue, cells, or organs obtained from a living 
or dead human embryo or fetus during or after an induced abortion, or 
for any therapeutic application for Parkinson's that uses such human 
fetal tissue, cells, or organs. This subsection does not apply to human 
fetal tissue, cells, or organs obtained from a spontaneous abortion or 
an ectopic pregnancy.''.
                                 <all>
