
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 224 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 224

 To amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each 
   individual registering to vote in elections for Federal office to 
 provide the individual's Social Security number and to permit a State 
  to remove a registrant who fails to vote in two consecutive general 
elections for Federal office from the official list of eligible voters 
 in elections for Federal office on the ground that the registrant has 
   changed residence, if the registrant fails to respond to written 
     notices requesting confirmation of the registrant's residence.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 7, 1997

 Mr. McCollum introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on House Oversight

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each 
   individual registering to vote in elections for Federal office to 
 provide the individual's Social Security number and to permit a State 
  to remove a registrant who fails to vote in two consecutive general 
elections for Federal office from the official list of eligible voters 
 in elections for Federal office on the ground that the registrant has 
   changed residence, if the registrant fails to respond to written 
     notices requesting confirmation of the registrant's residence.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Integrity in Voter Registration Act 
of 1997''.

SEC. 2. REQUIRING APPLICANTS REGISTERING TO VOTE TO PROVIDE SOCIAL 
              SECURITY NUMBER.

    (a) Registration With Application for Driver's License.--
            (1) In general.--Section 5(c)(2) of the National Voter 
        Registration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 1973gg-3(c)(2)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph 
                (D);
                    (B) by striking the period at the end of 
                subparagraph (E) and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(F) shall require the applicant to provide the 
        applicant's Social Security number.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 5(c)(2)(A) of such Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1973gg-3(c)(2)(A)) is amended by inserting after 
        ``subparagraph (C)'' the following: ``, or the information 
        described in subparagraph (F)''.
    (b) Mail Registration.--Section 9(b)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1973gg-7(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``may require only such 
identifying information'' and inserting the following: ``shall require 
the applicant to provide the applicant's Social Security number, and 
may require only such additional identifying information''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect January 1, 1998, and shall apply with respect to applicants 
registering to vote in elections for Federal office on or after such 
date.

SEC. 3. REMOVAL OF CERTAIN REGISTRANTS FROM OFFICIAL LIST OF ELIGIBLE 
              VOTERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 8(d) of the National Voter Registration 
Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 1973gg-6(d)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) At the option of the State, a State may remove the name of 
a registrant from the official list of eligible voters in elections for 
Federal office on the ground that the registrant has changed residence 
if--
            ``(i) the registrant has not voted or appeared to vote 
        (and, if necessary, correct the registrar's record of the 
        registrant's address) in an election during the period 
        beginning on the day after the date of the second previous 
        general election for Federal office held prior to the date the 
        confirmation notice described in subparagraph (B) is sent and 
        ending on the date of such notice;
            ``(ii) the registrant has not voted or appeared to vote 
        (and, if necessary, correct the registrar's record of the 
        registrant's address) in any of the first two general elections 
        for Federal office held after the confirmation notice described 
        in subparagraph (B) is sent; and
            ``(iii) during the period beginning on the date the 
        confirmation notice described in subparagraph (B) is sent and 
        ending on the date of the second general election for Federal 
        office held after the date such notice is sent, the registrant 
        has failed to notify the State in response to the notice that 
        the registrant did not change his or her residence, or changed 
        residence but remained in the registrar's jurisdiction.
    ``(B) A confirmation notice described in this subparagraph is a 
postage prepaid and pre-addressed return card, sent by forwardable 
mail, on which a registrant may state his or her current address, 
together with information concerning how the registrant can continue to 
be eligible to vote if the registrant has changed residence to a place 
outside the registrar's jurisdiction and a statement that the 
registrant may be removed from the official list of eligible voters if 
the registrant does not respond to the notice (during the period 
described in subparagraph (A)(iii)) by stating that the registrant did 
not change his or her residence, or changed residence but remained in 
the registrar's jurisdiction.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 8(i)(2) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1973gg-6(d)) is amended by inserting ``or subsection (d)(3)'' after 
``subsection (d)(2)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect January 1, 1998, and shall apply with respect to general 
elections for Federal office held on or after January 1, 1996.
                                 <all>
