
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4013 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4013

      To authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to convey certain 
  administrative sites and to use the proceeds for the acquisition of 
   office sites and the acquisition, construction, or improvement of 
offices and administrative support buildings for the Conconino National 
  Forest, Kaibab National Forest, Prescott National Forest, and Tonto 
                National Forest in the State of Arizona.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 5, 1998

  Mr. Stump introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                         Committee on Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to convey certain 
  administrative sites and to use the proceeds for the acquisition of 
   office sites and the acquisition, construction, or improvement of 
offices and administrative support buildings for the Conconino National 
  Forest, Kaibab National Forest, Prescott National Forest, and Tonto 
                National Forest in the State of Arizona.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DEFINITION.

    In this Act, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
Agriculture.

SEC. 2. SALE OR EXCHANGE OF ADMINISTRATIVE SITES.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary, under 
such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, may sell or 
exchange any or all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the following National Forest System administrative sites:
            (1) The Camp Verde Administrative Site, comprising 
        approximately 213.60 acres, as depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Camp Verde Administrative Site'', dated April 12, 1997.
            (2) A portion of the Cave Creek Administrative Site, 
        comprising approximately 16 acres, as depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Cave Creek Administrative Site'', dated May 1, 1997.
            (3) The Fredonia Duplex Housing Site, comprising 
        approximately 1.40 acres and the Fredonia Dwelling Site, 
        comprising approximately 1.58 acres, as depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Fredonia Duplex Dwelling, Fredonia Ranger 
        Dwelling'', dated August 28, 1997.
            (4) The Groom Creek Administrative Site, comprising 
        approximately 7.88 acres, as depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Groom Creek Administrative Site'', dated April 29, 1997.
            (5) The Payson Administrative Site, comprising 
        approximately 296.43 acres, as depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Payson Ranger Station Administrative Site'', dated May 1, 
        1997.
            (6) The Sedona Administrative Site, comprising 
        approximately 21.41 acres, as depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Sedona Ranger Station Administrative Site'', dated April 12, 
        1997.
    (b) Exchange Acquisitions.--The Secretary may acquire land and 
existing or future administrative improvements in exchange for a 
conveyance of an administrative site under subsection (a).
    (c) Applicable Authorities.--A sale or exchange of an 
administrative site shall be subject to the laws (including 
regulations) applicable to the conveyance and acquisition of land for 
National Forest System purposes.
    (d) Cash Equalization.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the Secretary may accept a cash equalization payment in excess of 25 
percent of the value of an administrative site in an exchange under 
subsection (a).
    (e) Solicitations of Offers.--In carrying out this Act, the 
Secretary may--
            (1) use solicitations of offers for sale or exchange on 
        such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe; and
            (2) reject any offer if the Secretary determines that the 
        offer is not adequate or not in the public interest.

SEC. 3. DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.

    The proceeds of a sale or exchange under section 2 shall be 
deposited in the fund established under Public Law 90-171 (16 U.S.C. 
484a; commonly known as the Sisk Act) and shall be available for 
expenditure, until expended, for--
            (1) the acquisition of land and interests in land for 
        administrative sites; and
            (2) the acquisition, construction, or improvement of 
        offices and other administrative support buildings for the 
        Conconino National Forest, Kaibab National Forest, Prescott 
        National Forest, and Tonto National Forest.

SEC. 4. REVOCATIONS.

    (a) Public Land Orders.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, to facilitate the sale or exchange of the administrative sites 
under section 2, public land orders withdrawing the administrative 
sites from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws are 
revoked for any portion of the administrative sites conveyed by the 
Secretary.
    (b) Effective Date.--The effective date of a revocation made by 
this section shall be the date of the patent or deed conveying the 
administrative site.
                                 <all>
