
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4230 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4230

 To provide for a land exchange involving the El Portal Administrative 
   Site of the Department of the Interior in the State of California.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 15, 1998

Mr. Radanovich introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                         Committee on Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for a land exchange involving the El Portal Administrative 
   Site of the Department of the Interior in the State of California.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``El Portal Administrative Site Land 
Exchange Act''.

SEC. 2. LAND EXCHANGE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, EL PORTAL 
              ADMINISTRATIVE SITE, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Authorization of Exchange.--If the non-Federal lands described 
in subsection (b) are conveyed to the United States in accordance with 
this section, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the party 
conveying the non-Federal lands all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to a parcel of land consisting of approximately 8 
acres administered by the Department of Interior as part of the El 
Portal Administrative Site in the State of California, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``El Portal Administrative Site Land 
Exchange'', dated June 1998.
    (b) Receipt of Non-Federal Lands.--The parcel of non-Federal lands 
referred to in subsection (a) consists of approximately 8 acres, known 
as the Yosemite View parcel, which is located adjacent to the El Portal 
Administrative Site, as generally depicted on the map referred to in 
subsection (a). Title to the non-Federal lands must be acceptable to 
the Secretary of the Interior, and the conveyance shall be subject to 
such valid existing rights of record as may be acceptable to the 
Secretary. The parcel shall conform with the title approval standards 
applicable to Federal land acquisitions.
    (c) Approximately Equal in Value.--The values of both the Federal 
and non-Federal lands to be exchanged under this section are deemed to 
be approximately equal in value, and no additional valuation 
determinations are required.
    (d) Applicability of Other Laws.--Except as otherwise provided in 
this section, the Secretary of the Interior shall process the land 
exchange authorized by this section in the manner provided in part 2200 
of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Map.--The map referred to in subsection (a) shall be on file 
and available for inspection in appropriate offices of the Department 
of the Interior.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Interior 
may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
land exchange under this section as the Secretary considers appropriate 
to protect the interests of the United States.
                                 <all>
