
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 477 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 477

To amend titles 23 and 49, United States Code, relating to metropolitan 
                               planning.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 21, 1997

  Mr. Hefley introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
             Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend titles 23 and 49, United States Code, relating to metropolitan 
                               planning.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATIONS UNDER 
              HIGHWAY PROGRAM.

    (a) Percentage of Population Represented.--Section 134(b) of title 
23, United States Code, is amended in each of paragraphs (1), (4), and 
(5) by striking ``75 percent'' and inserting ``50 percent''.
    (b) Veto Power.--Section 134(b) of such title is amended in each of 
paragraphs (1), (5)(A), and (5)(B) by striking the parenthetical 
phrase.
    (c) Autonomy.--Section 134(e) of such title is amended by striking 
``and the State'' and all that follows through the period at the end 
and inserting the following: ``to ensure that the plans and programs 
required by this section are complied with. It is the responsibility of 
the State to provide oversight in the area with multiple metropolitan 
planning organizations.''.

SEC. 2. DESIGNATION OF METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATIONS UNDER 
              TRANSIT PROGRAM.

    (a) Percentage of Population Represented.--Section 5303(c) of title 
49, United States Code, is amended in each of paragraphs (1)(A), 
(4)(B)(i), and (5)(A) by striking ``75 percent'' and inserting ``50 
percent''.
    (b) Veto Power.--Section 5303(c) of such title is amended in each 
of paragraphs (1)(A), (5)(A), and (5)(B) by striking the parenthetical 
phrase.
    (c) Autonomy.--Section 5303(e)(3) of such title is amended by 
striking ``and the State'' and all that follows through the period at 
the end and inserting the following: ``to ensure that the plans and 
programs required by this section are complied with. It is the 
responsibility of the State to provide oversight in the area with 
multiple metropolitan planning organizations.''.
                                 <all>
