
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 580 Introduced in House (IH)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 580

To require the Federal Government to consider as having arrived on time 
     any sealed bid submitted in response to a solicitation for a 
 procurement of goods or services if the bid was sent by an overnight 
  message delivery service at least two working days before the date 
                     specified for receipt of bids.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 4, 1997

 Mrs. Mink of Hawaii introduced the following bill; which was referred 
to the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight, and in addition to 
  the Committee on National Security, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require the Federal Government to consider as having arrived on time 
     any sealed bid submitted in response to a solicitation for a 
 procurement of goods or services if the bid was sent by an overnight 
  message delivery service at least two working days before the date 
                     specified for receipt of bids.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REQUIREMENT TO CONSIDER SEALED BIDS SENT BY OVERNIGHT 
              MESSAGE DELIVERY SERVICE IF SENT TWO DAYS BEFORE 
              DEADLINE.

    (a) Civilian Agencies.--Section 303A of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act (41 U.S.C. 253a) (as amended by the Federal 
Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-355)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) An executive agency, in considering sealed bids submitted in 
response to a solicitation, shall consider as having arrived by the 
date specified in the solicitation for receipt of bids any bid that was 
sent at least two working days before such date by the next-day 
delivery service of the U.S. Postal Service or by an overnight message 
delivery service of any other entity.''.
    (b) Armed Services.--Section 2305(a) of title 10, United States 
Code (as amended by the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-355)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(6) The head of an agency, in considering sealed bids submitted 
in response to a solicitation, shall consider as having arrived by the 
date specified in the solicitation for receipt of bids any bid that was 
sent at least two working days before such date by the next-day 
delivery service of the U.S. Postal Service or by an overnight message 
delivery service of any other entity.''.
                                 <all>
