
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 547 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 547

  To provide for continuing appropriations in the absence of regular 
                  appropriations for fiscal year 1998.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 10, 1997

  Mr. McCain (for himself, Mrs. Hutchison, Mr. Lott, Mr. Stevens, Mr. 
   Nickles, Mr. Craig, Mr. Ashcroft, and Mr. Warner) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                             Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide for continuing appropriations in the absence of regular 
                  appropriations for fiscal year 1998.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Government Shutdown Prevention 
Act''.

SEC. 2. CONTINUING FUNDING.

    (a) In General.--If any regular appropriation bill for fiscal year 
1998 does not become law prior to the beginning of fiscal year 1998 or 
a joint resolution making continuing appropriations is not in effect, 
there is appropriated, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, such sums as may be necessary to continue any 
program, project, or activity for which funds were provided in fiscal 
year 1997.
    (b) Level of Funding.--Appropriations and funds made available, and 
authority granted, for a program, project, or activity for fiscal year 
1998 pursuant to this Act shall be at 98 per cent of the rate of 
operations that was provided for the program, project, or activity in 
fiscal year 1997 in the corresponding regular appropriation Act for 
fiscal year 1997.
    (c) Period of Availability.--Appropriations and funds made 
available, and authority granted, for fiscal year 1998 pursuant to this 
Act for a program, project, or activity shall be available for the 
period beginning with the first day of a lapse in appropriations and 
ending with the earlier of--
            (1) the date on which the applicable regular appropriation 
        bill for fiscal year 1998 becomes law (whether or not that law 
        provides for that program, project, or activity) or a 
        continuing resolution making appropriations becomes law, as the 
        case may be; or
            (2) the last day of fiscal year 1998.

SEC. 3. TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

    (a) In General.--An appropriation of funds made available, or 
authority granted, for a program, project, or activity for fiscal year 
1998 pursuant to this Act shall be made available to the extent and in 
the manner which would be provided by the pertinent appropriations Act 
for fiscal year 1997, including all of the terms and conditions and the 
apportionment schedule imposed with respect to the appropriation made 
or funds made available for fiscal year 1997 or authority granted for 
the program, project, or activity under current law.
    (b) Extent and Manner.--Appropriations made by this Act shall be 
available to the extent and in the manner which would be provided by 
the pertinent appropriations Act.

SEC. 4. COVERAGE.

    Appropriations and funds made available, and authority granted, for 
any program, project, or activity for fiscal year 1998 pursuant to this 
Act shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred for that 
program, project, or activity during the portion of fiscal year 1998 
for which this Act applies to that program, project, or activity.

SEC. 5. EXPENDITURES.

    Expenditures made for a program, project, or activity for fiscal 
year 1998 pursuant to this Act shall be charged to the applicable 
appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever a regular appropriation 
bill or a joint resolution making continuing appropriations until the 
end of fiscal year 1998 providing for that program, project, or 
activity for that period becomes law.

SEC. 6. INITIATING OR RESUMING A PROGRAM, PROJECT, OR ACTIVITY.

    No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted 
pursuant to this Act shall be used to initiate or resume any program, 
project, or activity for which appropriations, funds, or other 
authority were not available during fiscal year 1997.

SEC. 7. PROTECTION OF OTHER OBLIGATIONS.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to effect Government 
obligations mandated by other law, including obligations with respect 
to Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and veterans benefits.

SEC. 8. DEFINITION.

    In this Act, the term ``regular appropriation bill'' means any 
annual appropriation bill making appropriations, otherwise making funds 
available, or granting authority, for any of the following categories 
of programs, projects, and activities:
            (1) Agriculture, rural development, and related agencies 
        programs.
            (2) The Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
        judiciary, and related agencies.
            (3) The Department of Defense.
            (4) The government of the District of Columbia and other 
        activities chargeable in whole or in part against the revenues 
        of the District.
            (5) The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
        and Education, and related agencies.
            (6) The Departments of Veterans and Housing and Urban 
        Development, and sundry independent agencies, boards, 
        commissions, corporations, and offices.
            (7) Energy and water development.
            (8) Foreign assistance and related programs.
            (9) The Department of the Interior and related agencies.
            (10) Military construction.
            (11) The Department of Transportation and related agencies.
            (12) The Treasury Department, the U.S. Postal Service, the 
        Executive Office of the President, and certain independent 
        agencies.
            (13) The legislative branch.
                                 <all>
