
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Res. 219 Agreed to Senate (ATS)]







105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
S. RES. 219

   To authorize printing of the minutes of the Senate Republican and 
                     Democratic Party Conferences.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 29, 1998

    Mr. Mack (for himself and Mr. Daschle) submitted the following 
             resolution; which was considered and agreed to

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   To authorize printing of the minutes of the Senate Republican and 
                     Democratic Party Conferences.

Whereas the Senate Republican and Democratic Conferences have maintained minutes 
        of their meetings since the earliest years of this century;
Whereas the Advisory Committee on the Records of Congress recommends that the 
        portions of those minutes at least 30 years old be published; and
Whereas the minutes of the Senate Party Conferences offer rich documentation of 
        the Senate's institutional development during the first two-thirds of 
        the 20th century: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved,

SECTION 1. PRINTING OF THE MINUTES OF THE REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE, 1911-
              1964.

    (a) In General.--There shall be printed as a Senate document the 
book entitled ``Minutes of the Senate Republican Conference, 1911-
1964'', prepared by the Senate Historical Office under the supervision 
of the Secretary of the Senate, with the concurrence of the United 
States Senate Republican Conference.
    (b) Specifications.--The Senate document described in subsection 
(a) shall include illustrations and shall be in the style, form, 
manner, and binding as directed by the Joint Committee on Printing 
after consultation with the Secretary of the Senate.
    (c) Number of Copies.--In addition to the usual number of copies, 
there shall be printed with suitable binding the lesser of--
            (1) 1,000 copies for use of the Senate, to be allocated as 
        determined by the Secretary of the Senate; or
            (2) a number of copies that does not have a total 
        production and printing cost of more than $1,200.

SEC. 2. PRINTING OF THE MINUTES OF THE DEMOCRATIC CONFERENCE, 1903-
              1964.

    (a) In General.--There shall be printed as a Senate document the 
book entitled ``Minutes of the Senate Democratic Conference, 1903-
1964'', prepared by the Senate Historical Office under the supervision 
of the Secretary of the Senate, with the concurrence of the United 
States Senate Democratic Conference.
    (b) Specifications.--The Senate document described in subsection 
(a) shall include illustrations and shall be in the style, form, 
manner, and binding as directed by the Joint Committee on Printing 
after consultation with the Secretary of the Senate.
    (c) Number of Copies.--In addition to the usual number of copies, 
there shall be printed with suitable binding the lesser of--
            (1) 1,000 copies for the use of the Senate, to be allocated 
        as determined by the Secretary of the Senate; or
            (2) a number of copies that does not have a total 
        production and printing cost of more than $1,200.
                                 <all>
